IN compliance with an urgent request Tatlock called at the American Embassy in London, and had an interview with the Ambassador.
'I want you,' said the Ambassador, 'if you can make it convenient to do so, to proceed at once down to Edinburgh, and put up at the Hotel Balmoral, where a certain James Washington Jackson is staying. I further want you to watch this man closely, and find out all you possibly can about him—trace his career, in fact, from his cradle to the present day. If it can be done. Needless for me to say, the utmost caution must be exercised in order that Jackson's suspicions may not be aroused. My Government have instructed me to take steps to shadow Jackson, and to employ the best talent in England to that end.
'My Government have reason to suppose that Jackson is a notorious character, one of the cleverest rascals in the world, who has travelled everywhere, passed under many names, but whose real name is Shapcott Darlton, who years ago forged an immense number of United States bonds, and is believed to have poisoned Judge Bronson, who tried and condemned to death Darlton's brother, who was charged with shooting the husband, brother, and father of a young lady with whom he had been intriguing in the State of Nebraska. Darlton was, it appears, a man of protean character, and so clever that he outwitted everyone, and finally disappeared from the country. For years nothing has been heard of him, but Jackson is suspected. Of course we want unmistakable proof, and we look to you to supply us with that proof if it can be obtained. Without it we should not, as you know, be justified in arresting Jackson and asking for his extradition.'
Tatlock intimated that he grasped the situation, and thoroughly understood all that was required of him, and in the course of the next few days he had located himself in Edinburgh.
It was the summer season, and the city was full of strangers coming and going. Tatlock had some difficulty in obtaining a room at the Balmoral, but as he expressed his willingness to occupy a garret at the top of the house until the departure of someone enabled him to be more fittingly accommodated he was duly installed in the house, and de-scribed himself in the visitors' book as Ebenezer Gurney, of Manchester. He had attired himself in a tourist suit, consisting of tweed jacket and knickerbockers. He wore spectacles, and an admirably fitting wig of long dark brown hair gave him a somewhat artistic finish.
He had not been long in the house before he spotted his man, who seemed to be the central figure of a little group of people, consisting of two or three men and four ladies, three being young and pretty, the daughters of the fourth, a charming woman of about fifty-five. She was known as Lady Gwendoline Tarrant, of reputed wealth, and was conspicuous for her philanthropic qualities. She was the widow of Sir Richard Tarrant, Bart., who had sat as a Conservative in the House of Commons for many years, and was the owner of Bingley Hall and thousands of broad acres in the hunting county of Leicestershire, besides a town house in Berkeley Square, London. One of the men in her party was a nephew; the others were friends, one being the affianced of Ruth Tarrant, the youngest daughter.
James Washington Jackson was a singularly attractive and fascinating man—tall and powerful, with a strongly marked face, keen, bright, dark eyes, perfect teeth, a good complexion, and regular features. His cheeks and chin were clean shaved, but a well-trimmed moustache shaded his mouth. He had a pleasant musical voice and a polished, gentlemanly manner. In age he was about thirty-two or three, and his general appearance suggested the well-trained gentleman. There was a slight American accent in his speech, which was far from unpleasant. There was nothing about him to indicate that he was the villain the American Ambassador seemed to think he was. And Tatlock himself was at first inclined to believe a mistake had been made. It did not take the detective long to discover that Mr. Jackson was paying court to one of Lady Tarrant's daughters, Miss Beryl Tarrant, a very charming young woman of three-and-twenty, and it was obvious that he was a persona grata with the family and their friends.
For four days Tatlock closely watched the movements of Mr. Jackson, but saw not a sign to warrant a suspicion of the man's honesty. At length the party took their departure and journeyed through the Trossachs. Tatlock went with them, though he was not of their party, and no one suspected that this quiet, demure, unostentatious little gentleman, who was so primly dressed, and moved about as though even with his spectacles he had a difficulty in seeing, was shadowing them.
Mr. Jackson was either very well acquainted with the country, or had been at special pains to post himself up, for he constituted himself the guide of the party, and his knowledge seemed of the cyclopaedic order. He had the story of Rob Roy at his tongue's end. Ellen's Isle aroused his poetic fervour. He recited with correct intonation and an obvious appreciation of its beauties the stirring description of the fight between Fitzjames and Roderick Dhu. He expatiated on the merits of Scott, and rattled off long quotations with a grace and facility that greatly impressed his listeners, and drew around him a number of curious and admiring strangers, who regarded the well-informed and well-spoken gentleman as a man worth knowing.
From Glasgow the party visited Ayrshire, and trod the scenes that are endeared for ever to Scotsmen by the genius of Burns. And here again Mr. Jackson was equally at home, and proved himself as familiar with the ploughman poet as he was with Scott.
Returning to Glasgow, they rested for a couple of days and then took their departure for Oban, from whence they visited Staffa and Iona, and afterwards continued their journey to Inverness.
During all this time Tatlock had kept in touch with them, and yet had avoided attracting their notice in any way. And his mission so far had been fruitless. He had learnt nothing about Jackson beyond that he was exceptionally clever, singularly well read, a good talker, but a poser; on the other hand, he was vain, and in some respects frivolous, and it was clear he liked to be regarded as a person of importance. In all this, of course, there was nothing that warranted suspicion of the man's honesty, but by this time Tatlock had come to the conclusion that beneath Jackson's affable and polished manner there lurked a demon.
The first glimpse he got of this was at Oban. After landing from the trip to Staffa, Jackson was coming over the gangway from the steamer, when a small nail, which had been carelessly left sticking out in the rail, ripped one of Jackson's kid gloves—he was wearing light-coloured gloves that fitted him to perfection. This trifling incident would never have disturbed the equanimity of a well-balanced mind, but the effect on Jackson was marvellous, magical. His usual expression underwent a complete change. From his eyes flashed a light of such wrath and fury that the man looked positively demoniacal. A deep frown furrowed his brow, his lips were compressed, he ground his teeth, and a fiery passion displayed itself in every feature.
It chanced that Tatlock was standing on the landing—place amongst the crowd when this little incident occurred. Jackson's exhibition of temper came and passed like a flash, but it did not escape the watcher, who was able also to gauge its significance, and from that moment Tatlock decided that his man was a consummate actor, and that there was infinitely more of the fiend than the saint in his composition. Possibly no one else saw the change. At any rate, if they did, they did not attach the same importance to it that Tatlock did. A minute after the little accident Jackson was laughing and chatting to Beryl Tarrant, and making a joke about the torn glove.
A few days were spent in Inverness, and the battlefield of Culloden was visited. Then the party moved on to Loch Maree. It was here that Tatlock's patience and perseverance in watching and waiting were rewarded. The day after their arrival a special messenger came over from the post office five miles away with a telegram for Mr. Jackson. Tatlock a little later became aware that Jackson had made arrangements with the landlord to be driven with all speed to the nearest railway station, as he had to catch the train that night for London. There was consternation amongst the Tarrant party when Jackson announced his departure, but he consoled them by promising to be back in five days, when they would continue their tour to the Isle of Skye.
Tatlock recognised the necessity of still keeping an eye on the man he was shadowing. The difficulties of the situation created by the receipt of that telegram were very great, but Tatlock was equal to them. It was of course of the highest importance that he should avoid arousing Jackson's suspicions, as that might have frustrated the whole plan for acquiring the necessary information about him. So he put a knapsack on his back containing a few necessary articles, and, leaving the rest of his things in the hands of the landlord, told him he was going to make a little tramp in the district, and would be back in a few days. Then he slipped quietly away, steered for a farm he had spotted, and bargained with the farmer to drive him to the station to catch a train due before the one by which Jackson was going to travel. This train was caught. Tatlock left his knapsack in the left luggage office of the station, and proceeded to Inverness. He was at the station when the next train arrived, bringing Jackson, and the two men travelled then to Edinburgh, though Jackson was all unconscious that he was being shadowed.
The next day they went up to London, and Jackson engaged a room at the London and North-Western Hotel; so did Tatlock. At this hotel Jackson was met by a superbly dressed, handsome woman, and it was evident she imparted some unpleasant news to him. They had ordered supper, and sat together at a small table in the dining-room. The woman handed Jackson a letter to read. As he read it he bit his lip and frowned deeply. The contents of that letter annoyed him greatly. When he had read it he sank into a fit of abstraction; then he slowly tore the letter into minute pieces and dropped them into a tumbler on the table.
Tatlock addressed himself to a waiter. You see that tumbler with pieces of paper in it on the table where that lady and gentleman are sitting. Bring it to me without attracting attention, and you shall have a sovereign.
The waiter was naturally curious, but he was also discreet. A sovereign was not to be sneezed at for so small a service, and he secured it. As soon as he was in possession of the fragments of the letter Tatlock went to his room, and with infinite patience succeeded in putting that letter together, and this is what he read:

The Club, Boston, U.S.A.
My dear Julia,
A catastrophe has happened. Dear Old Joe has been nabbed, although they may have a difficulty in proving anything against him, for you know how cautious he is. But, if anything is discovered, it will be awkward for all concerned. Get hold of the boss without a moment's loss of time, and put him on his guard. He is so prolific in resource that he may be able to suggest some means of throwing a shield over Joe, whom we must try and save at all costs. I am watching developments, and ready to skip at a moment's notice. I will write more fully by the next mail. But give the boss the tip immediately. Perhaps he will come across the pond.
Yours eternally,
Jacinithia.

This letter revealed a good deal, and left no room to doubt that Jackson was the 'boss' referred to, and that he was a rascal. Tatlock soon determined on the course to pursue. In a few hours he was travelling back to Scotland, and as fast as trains and coach would take him he made his way to Loch Maree, where he found Lady Tarrant and her daughters and friends still staying there. When he had made himself presentable after his long journey, he sought an interview with Lady Tarrant, and opened the ball by asking her how long she had known James Washington Jackson.
'Only three months,' she said. She had made his acquaintance at Grasmere, in the English Lake Country. He represented himself as being a nephew of the renowned Stonewall Jackson, who won fame during the American Civil War. His father, according to his account, was a very wealthy man, and was a High Court Judge in the State of Pennsylvania.
'Of course, you have no reason to doubt the truthfulness of these statements?'
'None whatever.'
'And Mr. Jackson is engaged to one of your daughters?'
'Yes, to Beryl. They are very fond of each other.'
'I presume I am right in supposing that if you were assured that Mr. Jackson was an adventurer you would not allow your daughter to see him again?'
Lady Tarrant uttered a little suppressed scream. The bare suggestion of such a possibility shocked her. Then she was indignant, and said some harsh things.
'Madam,' said Tatlock, 'please have a little patience. I have a duty to perform, and before long I think I may be able to prove to you that Mr. Jackson has deceived you, and that he is not the person he represents himself to be. Failing that, nothing remains for me to do but offer my abject apology. You will, however, confess that it is better to suspect than to be deceived. If Mr. Jackson became the husband of your daughter, and turned out to be an impostor and a scamp, you would be sorry, but sorrow would be of no avail. Better, therefore, to err on the side of caution.'
Lady Tarrant could not find fault with the logic of this argument, and the result was she promised to be silent and secret until the time came to speak, and she undertook to assist Tatlock in every way.
In the course of conversation she had mentioned incidentally that Jackson had placed in her care when he went away a small despatch box, saying that it contained valuables, and he asked her to guard it jealously till his return. No doubt he was under the impression that this box could not be in safer hands than those of his prospective mother-in-law. And this impression would have been right under other circumstances. As matters now stood, Tatlock re-quested her to let him have the box for a short time. At first she was very reluctant to do this, but yielded at last to his arguments, subject to a condition that it should be opened in her presence. This was agreed to, the services of a village blacksmith were secured, and he succeeded after some difficulty in picking the lock.
The contents of the box were principally papers, but amongst them were several United States bonds, cheque books of various English banks and of the Bank of New York. There were scores of letters, and these, together with other documents, proved that 'Jackson' was an assumed name; that the man had passed under many aliases, but that his real name was Shapcott Darlton. There was also a book containing the names and addresses of a large number of titled and wealthy people in England and elsewhere. Amongst them was the name of Lady Tarrant, with this comment:
'Rich, with unmarried daughters. Said to be an old fool and easily gulled.'
Lady Tarrant almost had a fit when she read this. It was a terrible blow to her pride and self-respect, and she could not avoid an articulate prayer of thankfulness that she had so narrowly escaped the trap set for her by the clever rascal Darlton, who, although a man of immense cleverness and ability, chose to walk in the paths of vice rather than apply his talents to the benefit of his fellow-beings, as he might have done, while enriching himself at the same time. Of course his abilities, added to his polished and plausible manner, made him terribly dangerous. He was the head of a little band of educated and expert rogues, all related by ties of blood, and who resorted to the most daring and complicated crimes in various parts of the world in order that they might enrich themselves.
Tatlock's task had finished. He briefly telegraphed at follows to the American Ambassador: 'Jackson is Shapcots Darlton.'
In a very short time afterwards Darlton was arrested, and his box of documentary evidence was seized. The woman he had met at the London and North-Western Hotel turned out to be his cousin, and the person who had sent the warning to her from America was another cousin. In due course the man and woman were extradited and sent hack to the States, where they were subsequently found guilty of many crimes, and sentenced to long terms of imprisonment.
