"I MUST see Professor Kennedy! Where is he? I must see him!"

I was almost carried off my feet by the inrush of a wild-eyed girl. Startled by my own involuntary exclamation of surprise, which followed the vision that shot past me as I opened our door in response to a sudden, sharp series of pushes at the buzzer, Kennedy bounded swiftly toward me, and the girl almost flung herself upon him.

"Why, Miss—Dr—Miss—my dear young lady—what's the matter?" he stammered, catching her by the arm gently.

As Kennedy forced our strange visitor into a chair, I observed that she was all atremble. Plainly there was something she feared. She was almost over the verge of hysteria.

She was a striking girl, of medium height and slender form, but it was her face that fascinated me, with its delicately- molded features, intense, unfathomable eyes of dark brown, and lips that showed her idealistic, high-strung temperament.

"Please," Kennedy soothed, "get yourself together. What is the matter?"

She looked about, as if she feared that the very walls had eyes and ears. Yet there seemed to be something bursting from her lips that she could not restrain.

"My life," she cried wildly. "Oh, help me, help me! Unless I commit a murder to-night, I shall be killed myself!"

The words sounded so doubly strange from a girl of her evident refinement that I watched her narrowly, not sure yet but that this was a plain case of insanity.

"A murder!" repeated Kennedy incredulously. "You commit a murder!"

"Yes—Baron Krieger—you know—the German diplomatist and financier who is in America raising money and arousing sympathy for his country."

"Baron Krieger!" exclaimed Kennedy, in surprise, looking at her more keenly.

We had not met the Baron, but we had heard much about him—young, handsome, of an old family, trusted already, in spite of his youth, by many of the more advanced of Old-World financial and political leaders, one who had made a most favorable impression on democratic America at a time when such impressions were valuable.

Glancing from one of us to the other, she seemed suddenly, with a great effort, to recollect herself, for she reached into her chatelaine and pulled out a card from a case. It read simply, "Miss Paula Lowe."

"Yes," she replied, more calmly now, to Kennedy's repetition of the baron's name; "you see, I belong to a secret group. I am an anarchist."

She watched the effect of her confession, and finding the look on Kennedy's face encouraging rather than shocked, went on breathlessly: "We are fighting war with war—this iron-bound organization of men and women. We have pledged ourselves to exterminate all kings, emperors, and rulers, ministers of war, generals—but first of all the financiers who lend money that makes war possible. We are going to make another war impossible!"

"And your plan?" prompted Kennedy, in the most matter-of-fact manner. "How-were you to—reach the baron?"

"We had a drawing," she answered, with amazing calmness. "Another woman and I were chosen. We knew the baron's weakness for a pretty face. We planned to lure him on."

Her voice trailed off as if, the first burst of confidence over, she felt something that would lock her secret tighter in her breast.

A moment later she resumed, now talking rapidly, disconnectedly.

"You don't know, Professor Kennedy," she now explained, "but there are similar groups to ours in European countries, and the plan is to strike terror and consternation everywhere in the world at once. Why, at our headquarters here, have been drawn up plans and agreements with other groups, and there are set down the time, place, and manner of all the—the removals."

Momentarily she seemed to be carried away by something like the fanaticism of the fervor which had at first captured her— even still held her.

"Oh, can't you understand?" she went on, as if to justify herself. "The increase in armies, the frightful implements of slaughter, the total failure of the peace propaganda—they have all defied civilization!

"And then, too, the old, red-blooded emotions of battle have all been eliminated by the mechanical conditions of modern warfare, in which men and women are just so many units, automata.. Don't you see? To fight war with its own weapons—that has become the only, the last resort."

Her eager, flushed face betrayed the enthusiasm which had once carried her into "The Group," as she called it. I wondered what had brought her now to us.

"We are no longer making war against man!" she cried. "We are making war against picric acid and electric wires!"

I could not help thinking that there was no doubt, that to a certain type of mind, such reasoning might appeal most strongly.

"And you would do it in war-time, too?" asked Kennedy quickly.

She was ready with an answer. "King George of Greece was killed at the head of his troops. Remember Nazim Pasha, too. Such people are easily reached in time of peace—and in time of war, also—by sympathizers on their own side. That's it, you see—we have followers of all nationalities." She stopped, her burst of enthusiasm spent. A moment later she leaned forward, her clean-cut profile showing her more earnest than before.

"But, oh, Professor Kennedy," she added, "it is working itself out to be more terrible than war itself!"

"Have any of the plans been carried out yet?" asked Craig, I thought a little superciliously.

She seemed to catch her breath.

"Yes," she murmured, then checked herself. "That is, I—I think so."

I wondered if she were concealing something, perhaps had already had a hand in some such enterprise, and was frightened.

Kennedy leaned forward, observing the girl's discomfiture. "Miss Lowe," he said, catching her eye and holding it almost hypnotically, "why have you come here?"

The question, pointblank, seemed to startle her. Evidently she had thought to tell only as little as necessary, and in her own way. But Kennedy's eyes conquered.

"Oh, can't you understand yet?" she exclaimed, rising passionately and throwing out her arms in appeal. "I was carried away with my hatred of war. I hate it. But now—the sudden realization of what this compact all means has—well, caused something in me to—to snap. I don't care what oath I have taken. Oh, you—you must save him!"

What did she mean? At first she had come to be saved herself.

"You must save him!" she implored.

Our door buzzer sounded.

She gazed about with a hunted look, as if she felt that some one had, even now, pursued her and found her out.

"What shall I do?" she whispered.

"Quick—in here. No one will know," urged Kennedy, opening the door to his room. He paused for an instant. "Tell me—have you and this other woman met the baron yet? How far has it gone?"

The look she gave him was peculiar. I could not fathom what was going on in her mind. But she did not hesitate.

"Yes," she replied; "I—we have met him. He is to come back to New York from Washington to-day—this afternoon—to arrange a private loan of five million dollars secretly with some bankers We were to see him, to-night—a quiet dinner, after an automobile ride up the Hudson—"

"Both of you?" interrupted Craig.

"Yes—that—that other woman and my-self," she repeated. "To-night was the time fixed in the drawing for the—"

The word stuck in her throat. Kennedy understood. "Yes, yes," he encouraged; "but who is the other woman?"

Before she could reply, the buzzer had sounded again, and she had retreated from the door. Quickly Kennedy closed it and opened the outside door. It was our old friend Burke, of the secret service.

Without a word of greeting, a hasty glance seemed to assure him that Craig and I were alone.

"Kennedy," he blurted out, in a tone of suppressed excitement, "can I trust you to keep a big secret?"

Craig looked at him reproachfully, but said nothing.

"I beg your pardon—a thousand times," hastened Burke. "I was so excited."

"Once is enough, Burke," laughed Kennedy, his good nature restored at Burke's crestfallen appearance.

"Well, you see," went on the secret-service man, "this thing is so very important that, well, I forgot."

He sat down and hitched his chair close to us.

"Kennedy," he whispered, "I'm on the trail, I think, of something growing out of these terrible conditions in Europe that will tax the best in the secret service. Think of it, man. There's an organization, right here in this city, a sort of assassins' club, as it were, aimed at all the powerful men the world over. Why, the most refined and intellectual reformers have joined with the most red-handed anarchists and—"

"Sh, not so loud!" cautioned Craig. "I think I have one of them in the next room. Have they done anything yet to the baron?"

It was Burke's turn, now, to look from one to the other of us in unfeigned surprise.

"The baron?" he repeated, lowering his voice. "What baron?"

It was evident that Burke knew nothing, at least of this new plot. Kennedy beckoned him over to the window furthest from the door to his own room.

"What have you discovered?" he asked, forestalling Burke in the questioning. "What has happened?"

"You haven't heard, then?"

Kennedy nodded negatively.

"Fortescue, the American inventor of fortescite, the new explosive, died very strangely this morning."

"Yes," encouraged Kennedy.

"Most incomprehensible, too," Burke pursued. "No cause, apparently. But it might have been overlooked, perhaps, except for one thing: It wasn't known generally, but Fortescue had just perfected a successful electromagnetic gun—powderless, smokeless, flashless, noiseless, and of tremendous power. To- morrow he was to have signed the contract to sell it to England. This morning he is found dead, and the final plans of the gun are gone!"

Kennedy and Burke were standing mutely looking at each other.

"Who is in the next room?" whispered Burke, hoarsely, recollecting Kennedy's caution of silence.

Kennedy did not reply immediately. He was evidently much excited by Burke's news of the wonderful electromagnetic gun.

"Burke," he exclaimed suddenly, "let's join forces. I think we are both on the trail of a world-wide conspiracy—a sort of murder syndicate to wipe out war!"

Burke's only reply was a low whistle, which involuntarily escaped him as he reached over and grasped Craig's hand, which, to him, represented the sealing of the compact. Hastily Craig gave a whispered account of our strange visit from Miss Lowe, while Burke listened, open-mouthed.

He had scarcely finished when he reached for the telephone and called for Long Distance.

"Is this the German embassy?" asked Craig, a few moments later, when he got his number. "This is Craig Kennedy, in New York. The United States secret service will vouch for me—mention to them Mr. Burke of their New York office, who is here with me now. I understand that Baron Krieger is leaving for New York to meet some bankers this afternoon. He must not do so. What? He left last night at midnight and is already here?"

Kennedy turned to us blankly.

The door to his room opened suddenly.

There stood Miss Lowe, gazing wild-eyed at us. She had heard what we were saying. I tried to read her face. It was not fear that I saw there. It was rage; it was jealousy.

"The traitress—it is Marie!" she shrieked. "She has made a secret appointment with him."

At last I saw the truth. Paula Lowe had fallen in love with the man she had sworn to kill!

"What shall we do?" demanded Burke, instantly taking in the dangerous situation.

"Call O'Connor," I suggested, thinking of the police bureau of missing persons, and reaching for the telephone.

"No, no!" almost shouted Craig, seizing my arm. "The police will inevitably spoil it all. No; we must play a lone hand in this, if we are to work it out. How was Fortescue discovered, Burke?"

"Sitting in a chair in his laboratory. He must have been there all night. There wasn't a mark on him, not a sign of violence, yet his face was terribly drawn, as though he were gasping for breath or his heart had suddenly failed him. So far, I believe, the coroner has no clue and isn't advertising the case."

"Take me there, then," decided Craig quickly. "Walter, I must trust Miss Lowe to you on the journey. We must all go. That must be our starting-point."

I caught his significant look to me and interpreted it to mean that he wanted me to watch Miss Lowe especially. I gathered that taking her was in the nature of a "third degree," and, as a result, he expected to derive some information from her. Her face was pale and drawn as we four piled into a taxi-cab for a quick run down-town to Fortescue's laboratory.

"What do you know of these anarchists?" asked Kennedy of Burke, as we sped along. "Why do you suspect them?"

It was evident that he was discussing the case so that Paula could overhear.

"Why, we received a tip from abroad—I won't say where," replied Burke guardedly, taking his cue. "They call themselves 'The Group.' It seems they are composed of terrorists of all nations."

"The leader?" inquired Kennedy.

"There is one, I believe, a little florid, stout German. I think he, is a paranoiac who believes there has fallen on himself a divine mission to end all warfare. Quite likely he is one of those who have fled to America to avoid military service. Perhaps—why certainly, you must know him—Annenberg, an instructor in economics at the university?"

Craig nodded and raised his eyebrows in mild surprise. We had indeed heard of Annenberg and some of his radical theories, which had sometimes quite alarmed the conservative faculty.

"How about Mrs. Annenberg?" Craig asked, recalling the clever young wife of the middle-aged professor.

At the mere mention of the name, I felt a sort of start from Miss Lowe, who was seated next to me in the taxi-cab. She had quickly recovered herself, but not before I saw that Kennedy's plan of breaking down the last barrier of her reserve was working.

"She is one of them, too," Burke nodded. "J have had my men out shadowing them and their friends. They tell me that the Annenbergs hold salons—I suppose you would call them that—attended by numbers of men and women of high social and intellectual position who dabble in radicalism and all sorts of things."

"Who are the other leaders?" asked Craig. "Have you any idea?"

"Some idea," returned Burke. "There seems to be a Frenchman, a tall, wiry man of forty-five or fifty, with a black mustache which once had a military twist. There are a couple of Englishmen. Then there are five or six Americans who seem to be active. One, I believe, is a young woman."

Kennedy checked him with a covert glance, but did not betray by a movement of a muscle to Miss Lowe that either he or Burke suspected her.

"There are three Russians," continued Burke, "all of whom have escaped from Siberia. Then there is at least one Austrian, a Spaniard from the Ferrer school, and Tommaso and Enrico, two Italians. These in the main, I think, compose what might be called 'the inner circle' of 'The Group.'"

It was indeed an alarming, terrifying revelation, as we began to realize that Miss Lowe had undoubtedly been telling the truth. Not alone was there this American group, evidently, but all over Europe the lines of the conspiracy had apparently spread. It was not a casual gathering of ordinary malcontents. It went deeper than that. It included many who, in their disgust at war, secretly were not unwilling to wink at violence to end the curse.

The big facts to us, just at present, were that this group had made America its headquarters, that plans had been studiously matured and even reduced to writing, if Paula were to be believed. Everything had been carefully staged for a great, simultaneous blow or series of blows.

As I watched, I could not escape observing that Miss Lowe looked at Burke furtively now, as though he had some uncanny power.

Fortescue's laboratory was in an old building on a side street several blocks from the main thoroughfares of Manhattan. He had evidently chosen it partly because of its very inaccessibility.

"If he had any visitors last night," commented Kennedy, when our cab at last pulled up before the place, "they might have come and gone unnoticed."

We entered. Nothing had been disturbed in the laboratory by the coroner, and Kennedy was able rapidly to gain a complete idea of the case.

Fortescue's body, it seemed, had been discovered sprawled out in a big armchair, as Burke had said, by one of his assistants only a few hours before, when he had come to the laboratory in the morning to open it. Evidently the body of the inventor had been there undisturbed all night.

As we gleaned the meager facts, it became more evident that whoever had perpetrated the crime must have had the diabolical cunning to do it in some ordinary way that aroused no suspicion on the part of the victim, for there was no sign of any violence anywhere.

Fortescue's body had been removed from the chair in which it had been found and lay on a couch at the other end of the room, covered merely by a sheet. Otherwise, everything was undisturbed.

Kennedy pulled back a corner of the sheet, disclosing the face, contorted, and of a peculiar purplish hue from the congested blood-vessels. He bent over, and I did so, too. There was an unmistakable odor of tobacco from the body. A moment Kennedy studied the face before us, then slowly replaced the sheet.

Miss Lowe had paused just inside the door and seemed resolutely bound not to look at anything. Kennedy, meanwhile, had begun a most minute search of the laboratory.

In my effort to glean what I could from her actions and expressions, I did not notice that Craig had dropped to his knees and was peering into the shadow under the laboratory table. When at last he rose and straightened himself up, however, I saw that he was holding in the palm of his hand a half-smoked, gold-tipped cigarette, which had evidently fallen on the floor beneath the table, where it had burned itself out.

An instant afterward he picked out from the pile of articles found in Fortescue's pockets and lying on another table a silver cigarette-case. He snapped it open. Fortescue's cigarettes, of which there were perhaps a half-dozen in the case, were cork- tipped. Some one had evidently visited him the night before and had apparently offered him a cigarette, for there were any number of the cork-tipped stubs lying about. Who was it? I caught Paula looking with fascinated gaze at the gold-tipped stub, as Kennedy carefully folded it up in a piece of paper and deposited it in his pocket. Did she know something about the case?

Without a word, Kennedy seemed to take in the scant furniture of the laboratory at a glance, and a quick step or two brought him before a steel filing-cabinet. One drawer projected a bit. On its face was a little typewritten card bearing the inscription: E-M GUN.

He pulled the drawer open and glanced over the data in it.

"Just what is an electromagnetic gun?" I asked, interpreting the initials on the drawer.

"Well," he explained, as he turned over the notes and sketches, "the primary principle involved in the construction of such a gun consists in impelling the projectile by the magnetic action of a solenoid, the sectional coils or helices of which are supplied with current through devices actuated by the projectile itself. In other words, the sections of helices of the solenoid produce an accelerated motion of the projectile by acting successively on it, after a principle involved in the construction of electromagnetic rock-drills and despatch- tubes.

"All projectiles used in this gun of Fortescue's evidently must have magnetic properties and projectiles of iron or containing large portions of iron. You see, many coils are wound around the barrel of the gun. As the projectile starts, it does so under the attraction of those coils ahead, which the current makes temporary magnets. It automatically cuts off the current from those coils that it passes, allowing those further on only to attract it, and preventing those behind from pulling it back."

He paused to study the scraps of plans. "Fortescue had evidently also worked out a way of changing the poles of the coils as the projectile passed, causing them to repel the projectile, which must have added to its velocity."

He continued turning over the prints and notes in the drawer. When he finished, he looked up at us with an expression that indicated that he had merely satisfied himself of something he had already suspected.

"You were right, Burke," he said; "the final plans are gone."

Burke who, in the meantime, had been telephoning about the city in a vain effort to locate Baron Krieger, both at such banking-offices in Wall Street as he might be likely to visit and at some of the hotels most frequented by foreigners, merely nodded. He was evidently at a loss completely how to proceed.

In fact, there seemed to be innumerable problems—to warn Baron Krieger, to get the list of the assassinations, to guard Miss Lowe against falling into the hands of her anarchist friends again, to find the murderer of Fortescue, to prevent the use of the electromagnetic gun, and, if possible, to seize the anarchists before they had a chance to carry their plans further.

"There is nothing more that we can do here," remarked Craig briskly, betraying no sign of hesitation. "I think the best thing we can do is to go to my own laboratory. There, at least, there is something I must investigate sooner or later."

No one offering either a suggestion or an objection, we four again entered our cab. It was quite noticeable, now, that the visit had shaken Paula Lowe, but Kennedy still studiously refrained from questioning her, trusting that what she had seen and heard would have its effect.

Like everyone visiting Craig's laboratory for the first time, Miss Lowe seemed to feel the spell of the innumerable strange and uncanny instruments which he had gathered about him in his scientific warfare against crime. I could see that she was becoming more and more nervous, perhaps fearing, even, that, in some incomprehensible way, he might read her own thoughts. Yet one thing I did not detect: she showed no disposition to turn back on the course on which she had entered by coming to us.

Kennedy was quickly and deftly testing the stub of the little thin, gold-tipped cigarette. "Excessive smoking," he remarked casually, "causes neuroses of the heart, and tobacco has a specific affinity for the coronary arteries as well as a tremendous effect on the vagus nerve. But I don't think this was any ordinary smoke."

He had finished his tests, and a quiet smile of satisfaction flitted momentarily over his face.

As he looked up he remarked to us, with his eyes fixed on Miss Lowe: "That was a lady's cigarette. Did you notice the size? There has been a woman in this case."

The girl, suddenly transformed by the rapid-fire succession of discoveries, stood before us like a specter.

"'The Group,' as anarchists call it," pursued Craig, "is the loosest sort of organization conceivable, I believe, with no set membership, no officers, no laws—just a place of meeting. Could you get us into the inner circle, Miss Lowe?"

Her only answer was a little suppressed scream. Kennedy had asked the question merely for its effect, for it was only too evident that there was no time for us to play the stool- pigeon.

Kennedy, who had been clearing up the materials he had used in the analysis of the cigarette, wheeled about suddenly.

"Where is the headquarters of the inner circle?" he shot out.

Miss Lowe hesitated.

"Tell me," insisted Kennedy; "you must!"

If it had been Burke's bulldozing, she would never have yielded. But as she looked into Kennedy's eyes, she read there that he had long since fathomed the secret of her wildly beating heart, that if she would accomplish the purpose of saving the baron, she must stop at nothing.

"At—Maplehurst," she answered, in a low tone, dropping her eyes from his penetrating gaze, "Professor Annenberg's home—out on Long Island."

"We must act swiftly if we are to succeed," considered Kennedy, his tone betraying rather sympathy with than triumph over the wretched girl who had, at last, cast everything in the balance to outweigh the terrible situation into which she had been drawn. "To send Miss Lowe for that fatal list of assassinations is to send her either back into the power of this murderous group or perhaps to involve her again in the completion of their plans."

She sank back into a chair in complete nervous and physical collapse at the realization that in her new-found passion to save the baron, she had bared her sensitive soul for the dissection of three men whom she had never seen before.

"We must have that list," pursued Kennedy decisively. "We must visit Annenberg's headquarters."

"And I?" she asked, trembling, now, with genuine fear at the thought that he might ask her to accompany us, as he had on our visit to Fortescue's laboratory.

"Miss Lowe," said Kennedy, bending over her, "you have gone too far, now, ever to turn back. You are not equal to the trip. Would you like to remain here? No one will suspect. Here, at least, you will be safe until we return."

Her answer was a mute expression of thanks and confidence.

Quickly now Craig completed his arrangements for the visit to the headquarters of the real anarchist leader. Burke telephoned for a high-powered car, while Miss Lowe told frankly of the habits of Annenberg and the chances of finding his place unguarded, which were good in the daytime. Kennedy's only equipment for the excursion consisted in a small package which he took from a cabinet at the end of the room, and, with a parting reassurance to Paula Lowe, we were soon speeding over the bridge to the borough across the river.

Our quest took us to a rather dilapidated old house on the outskirts of the little Long Island town. The house stood alone, not far from the tracks of a trolley that ran at infrequent intervals, and even a hasty reconnoitering showed that to stop our motor at even a reasonable distance from it was in itself to arouse suspicion.

Although the house seemed deserted, Craig took no chances, but directed the car to turn at the next cross-road and then run back along a road back of and parallel to that on which Annenberg's was situated. It was perhaps a quarter of a mile away that we stopped and ran the car up along the side of the road into some bushes. Annenberg's was plainly visible, and it was not at all likely that anyone there would suspect trouble from that quarter.

A hasty conference with Burke followed, in which Kennedy unwrapped his small package, leaving part of its contents with him and adding careful instructions.

Then Kennedy and I retraced our steps back to the mysterious house.

To all appearance there had been no need of such excessive caution. Not a sound or motion greeted us as we entered the gate and made our way around to the rear. The very isolation of the house was now our protection, for we had no inquisitive neighbors to watch us for the instant when Kennedy, with the dexterity of a yeggman, inserted his knife between the sashes of the kitchen window and turned the catch.

We made our way on cautious tiptoe through a dining-room to a living-room, and, finding nothing, proceeded up-stairs. There was nothing to indicate that it was different from most small suburban homes, until, at last, we mounted to the attic.

This was finished off as one large room across the back of the house and two in front. As we opened the door to the large room, we could only gaze about in surprise. This was the rendezvous, the arsenal, literary, explosive, and toxicological of, "The Group." Ranged on a table were all the materials for bomb making, while in a cabinet I fancied there were poisons enough to decimate a city.

Kennedy sniffed. Over all I, too, could catch the faint odor of stale tobacco. No time was to be lost, however, and while Craig set to work, rapidly going through the contents of a desk in the corner, I glanced over the contents of a drawer of a heavy Mission table.

"Here's some of Annenberg's literature," I remarked, coming across a small pile of manuscript, entitled "The Human Slaughter- House."

"Read it," panted Kennedy; "it may give a clue."

Hastily I scanned the mad, frantic indictment of war.

### Quote

I see wild beasts all around me, distorted unnaturally, in a life-and-death-struggle, with bloodshot eyes, with foaming, gnashing mouths. They attack and kill one another and try to mangle each other. I leap to my feet. I race out into the night and tread on quaking flesh, step on hard heads, and stumble over weapons and helmets. Something is clutching at my feet like hands, so that I race away like a hunted deer with the hounds at his heels—and ever over more bodies—breathless, out of one field into another. Horror is crooning over my head. Horror is crooning beneath my feet. And nothing but dying, mangled flesh!

Of a sudden, I see nothing but blood before me. The heavens have opened, and the red blood pours in through the windows. Blood wells up on an altar. The walls run blood from the ceiling to the floor, and a giant of blood stands before me. His beard and his hair drip blood. He seats himself on the altar and laughs from thick lips. The black executioner raises his sword and whirls it above my head. Another moment, and my head will roll down on the floor. Another moment, and the red jet will spurt from my neck.

Murderers! Murderers! None other than murderers!

I paused in the reading. "There's nothing here," I remarked.

"Well," remarked Craig contemplatively, "one can at least easily understand how sensitive and imaginative people who have fallen under the influence of one who writes in that way can feel justified in killing those who bring such horrors on the human race—Hello—what's this?"

He had discovered a false back of one of the drawers in the desk and had jimmied it open. On the top of innumerable papers lay a large linen envelop. On its face it bore in typewriting—just like the card on the drawer at Fortescue's—E-M GUN.

"It is the original envelop that contained the final plans of the electromagnetic gun," he explained, opening it.

The envelop was empty. What had been done with the plans?

Suddenly a bell rang, startling me beyond measure. It was, however, only the telephone, of which an extension reached up into the attic arsenal. Kennedy quickly unhooked the receiver.

"Hello!" I heard him answer. "Yes; this is it."

He had disguised his voice. I waited anxiously and watched his face.

"The deuce!" he exclaimed, with his hand over the transmitter so that his voice would not be heard at the other end of the line.

"What's the matter?" I asked eagerly.

"It was Mrs. Annenberg—I am sure. But she was too keen for me. She caught on. There must be some password or form of expression that they use, for she has hung up the receiver."

Kennedy waited a minute or so. Then he whistled into the transmitter. It was done apparently to see whether there was anyone listening. But there was no answer.

"Operator! Operator!" he called insistently, moving the hook up and down. "Yes, operator. Can you tell me what number that was which just called?"

He waited impatiently.

"Bleecker—7180," he repeated, after the girl. "Thank you. Information, please."

Again we waited, as Craig tried to trace the call.

"What is the street-address of Bleecker, 7180?" he asked. "Five hundred and one, East Fifth—a tenement. Thank you."

"A tenement?" I repeated blankly.

"Yes," he cried, now for the first time excited; "don't you begin to see the scheme? I'll wager that Baron Krieger has been lured to New York to purchase the electromagnetic gun which they have stolen from Fortescue and the British. That is the bait that is held out to him by the woman. Call up Miss Lowe at the laboratory and see if she knows the place."

I gave central the number, while he fell to at the little secret drawer of the desk again. The grinding of the wheels of a passing trolley interfered with giving the number, and I had to wait a moment.

"Ah, Walter, here's the list!" almost shouted Kennedy, as he broke open a black-japanned despatch-box in the desk.

I bent over it, as far as the slack of the telephone wire of the receiver at my ear would permit. Annenberg had worked with amazing care and neatness on the list, even going so far as to draw at the top, in black, a death's-head. The rest of it was elaborately prepared in flaming red ink. Craig gasped to observe the list of world-famous men marked for destruction in London, Paris, Berlin, Rome, Vienna, Petrograd, and even in New York and Washington.

"What is the date set?" I asked, still with my ear glued to the receiver.

"To-night and to-morrow," he replied, stuffing the fateful sheet into his pocket.

Rummaging about in the drawer of the table, I had come to a package of gold-tipped cigarettes which had interested me, and I had left them out. Kennedy was now looking at them curiously.

"What is to be the method, do you suppose?" I asked.

"By a poison that is among the most powerful," he replied confidently, tapping the cigarettes. "Do you smell the odor in this room? What is it like?"

"Stale tobacco," I replied.

"Exactly—nicotine. Two or three drops on the mouth-end of a cigar or cigarette. The intended victim thinks it is only natural. But it is the purest form of the deadly alkaloid—fatal in a few minutes, too." He examined the thin little cigarettes more carefully. "Nicotine," he went on, "was about the first alkaloid that was recovered from the body by chemical analysis in a homicide case. That is the penetrating, persistent odor you smelled at Fortescue's, and also here. It's a very good poison—if you are not particular about being discovered. A pound of ordinary smoking-tobacco contains from a half to an ounce of it. It is almost entirely consumed by combustion; otherwise a pipeful would be fatal. Of course they may have thought that investigators would believe that their victims were inveterate smokers. But even the worst tobacco fiend wouldn't show traces of the weed to such an extent."

Miss Lowe answered at last.

"What is at Five hundred and one, East Fifth?" Kennedy asked.

"A headquarters of 'The Group' in the city," she answered. "Why?"

"Well, I believe that the plans of that gun are there and that the baron—"

"You damned spies!" came a voice from behind us.

Kennedy dropped the receiver, turning quickly, his automatic gleaming in his hand.

There was just a glimpse of a man with guttering bright-blue eyes that had an almost fiendish glare. An instant later, the door which had so unexpectedly opened banged shut; we heard a key turn in the lock—and the man dropped to the floor, before even Kennedy's automatic could test its ability to penetrate wood on a chance of hitting something the other side of it.

We were prisoners!

My mind worked automatically. At this very moment, perhaps, Baron Krieger might be negotiating for the electromagnetic gun. We had found out where he was, in all probability, but we were powerless to help him. I thought of Miss Lowe, and picked up the receiver which Kennedy had dropped.

She did not answer. The wire had been cut. We were isolated!

Kennedy had jumped to the window. I followed to restrain him, fearing that he had some mad scheme for climbing out. Instead, quickly he placed a peculiar arrangement from the little package he had brought, holding it to his eye as if sighting it, his right hand grasping a handle as one holds a stereoscope. A moment later, as I examined it more closely, I saw that, instead of looking at anything, he had before him a small parabolic mirror, turned away from him.

His finger pressed alternately on a button on the handle and I could see that there flashed in the little mirror a minute incandescent lamp which seemed to have a special filament arrangement.

The glaring sun was streaming in at the window, and I wondered what could possibly be accomplished by the little light in competition with the sun itself.

"Signaling by electric light in the daytime may sound to you ridiculous," explained Craig, still industriously flashing the light, "but this arrangement with Professor Donath's signal- mirror makes it possible, all right.

"I hadn't expected this, but I thought I might want to communicate with Burke quickly. You see, I sight the lamp and then press the button which causes the light in the mirror to flash. It seems a paradox that a light like this can be seen from a distance of even five miles and yet be invisible to one for whom it was not intended, but it is so. I use the ordinary Morse code."

"What message did you send?" I asked.

"I told him that Baron Krieger was at Five hundred and one, East Fifth, probably; to get the secret-service office in New York by wire and have them raid the place; then to come and rescue us. That was Annenberg. He must have come up by that trolley we heard passing just before."

The minutes seemed ages as we waited for Burke.

"No—you can't have a cigarette—and if I had a pair of bracelets with me, I'd search you myself," we heard a welcome e growl outside the a few minutes later. "Look in that other pocket, Tom."

The lock grated back, and there stood Burke holding in a grip of steel the undersized Annenberg, while the chauffeur who had driven our car swung open the door. "I'd have been up sooner," apologized Burke, giving the anarchist an extra twist, "only I figured that this fellow couldn't have got far away in this Godforsaken Ducktown and I might as well pick him up while I had a chance. That's a great little instrument of yours, Kennedy. I got you, fine."

A few minutes later, with the arch-anarchist safely pinioned between us, we were speeding back toward New York, laying plans for Burke to despatch warnings abroad to those whose names appeared on the fatal list, and at the same time to round up as many of the conspirators as possible.

As for Kennedy, his main interest now lay in Baron Krieger and Paula. While she had been driven frantic by the outcome of the terrible pact into which she had been drawn, some one, undoubtedly, had been trying to sell Baron Krieger the gun that had been stolen from the inventor. Once they had his money and he had received the plans of the gun, a fatal cigarette would be smoked. Could we prevent it?

At last we pulled up before the tenement at Five hundred and one. As we did so, one of Burke's men jumped out of the doorway.

"Are we in time?" shouted Burke.

"It's an awful mix-up," returned the man. "I can't make anything out of it, so I ordered 'em all held here till you came."

We pushed past without a word of criticism of his wonderful acumen.

On the top floor we came upon a young man, bending over the form of a girl who had fainted. On the floor of the middle of the room was a mass of charred papers which had evidently burned a hole in the carpet before they had been stamped out. Near-by was an unlighted cigarette, crushed flat on the floor.

"How is she?" asked Kennedy anxiously of the young man, as he dropped down on the other side of the girl. It was Paula. She had fainted, but was just now coming out of the border-land of unconsciousness.

"Was I in time? Had he smoked it?" she moaned weakly.

Kennedy turned to the young man.

"Baron Krieger, I presume?" he inquired. The young man nodded. .

"Burke, of the secret service," introduced Craig, indicating our friend, "My name is Kennedy. Tell what happened."

"I had just concluded a transaction," returned Krieger, in good but carefully guarded English. "Suddenly the door burst open. She seized these papers and dashed a cigarette out of my hands. The next instant she had touched a match to the papers and had fallen in a faint, almost in the blaze. Strangest experience I ever had in my life! Then all these other fellows came bursting in—said they were secret-service men, too."

Kennedy had no time to reply, for a cry from Annenberg directed our attention to the next room where, on a couch, lay a figure all huddled up.

As we looked we saw it was a woman, her head sweating profusely, and her hands cold and clammy. There was a strange twitching of the muscles of the face, the pupils of her eyes were widely dilated, her pulse weak and irregular. Evidently her circulation had failed so that it responded only feebly to stimulants, for her respiration was slow and labored.

Annenberg had burst with superhuman strength from Burke's grasp and was kneeling by the side of his wife's death-bed.

"It—was all Paula's fault—" gasped the woman. "I—knew I had better—carry it through—like the Fortescue visit—alone."

I felt a sense of reassurance at the words. Paula was innocent of the murder of Fortescue.

"Severe, acute nicotine poisoning," remarked Kennedy, as he rejoined us. "There is nothing we can do—now."

Paula moved at the words. With a supreme effort she raised herself.

"Then I—I failed?" she cried, catching sight of Kennedy.

"No, Miss Lowe," he answered gently. "You won. The plans of the terrible gun are destroyed. The baron is safe. Mrs. Annenberg has herself smoked one of the fatal cigarettes intended for him."

Krieger looked at us, uncomprehending. Kennedy picked up the crushed, unlighted cigarette and laid it in the palm of his hand beside another, half smoked, which he had found near Mrs. Annenberg.

"They are deadly," he said simply, to Krieger. "A few drops of pure nicotine hidden by that pretty gilt tip would have accomplished all that the bitterest anarchist could desire."

All at once Krieger seemed to realize what he had escaped so narrowly. He turned toward Paula.

With a faint little cry, she tottered.

Before any of us could reach her, he had caught her in his arms and imprinted a warm kiss on the insensible lips.

"Some water—quick!" he cried, still holding her close.
