"I'M so worried over Gloria, Professor Kennedy, that I hardly know what I'm doing."
Mrs. Bradford Brackett was one of those stunning women of baffling age of whom there seem to be so many nowadays. One would scarcely have believed that she could be old enough to have a daughter who would worry her very much. Her voice trembled and almost broke as she proceeded with her story, and, looking closer, I saw that, at least now, her face showed marks of anxiety that told on her more than would have been the case some years before.
At the mention of the name of Gloria Brackett, I saw that Craig was extremely interested, though he did not betray it to her mother. Already, with my nose for news, I had scented a much bigger story than any that had been printed. For the Bracketts had lately been more or less in the news of the day.
Choking back a little suppressed sob in her throat, Mrs. Brackett took from a delicate gold mesh bag, and laid on the desk before Kennedy, a small clipping from the "lost and found" advertisements in the Star. It read:
Reward of $10,000 and absolutely no questions asked for the return of a diamond necklace of seventy-one stones which disappeared from a house at Willys Hills, Long Island, last Saturday or Sunday. LaRue & Co., Jewelers, — Fifth Avenue.
I recognized the advertisement as one that had occasioned a great deal of comment on the Star, due to its peculiar nature. It had been a great mystery, perhaps much more so than if the advertisement had been worded and signed in the usual way. I knew, also, that the advertisement had created a great furor of excitement and gossip at the fashionable North Shore Hunt Club, of which Bradford Brackett was master of foxhounds.
"At first," explained Mrs. Brackett nervously, "La Rue was able to keep the secret. They even refused to let the police take up the case. But as public interest in the advertisement increased, at last the secret leaked out—at least that part of it which connected our name with the loss. That, however, seemed only to whet curiosity. It left everybody wondering what was back of it all. That's what we've been trying to avoid—that sort of publicity."
She paused a moment, but Kennedy said nothing, evidently thinking that the best safety-valve for her overwrought feelings would be to let her tell her story in her own way.
"Why, you know," she resumed rapidly, to hide her agitation, "the most ridiculous things have been said. Some people have even said that we lost nothing at all, that it was all a clever attempt at notoriety, to get our names into the papers. Some have said it was a plan to collect the burglary insurance. But we are wealthy. They didn't stop to think how inconceivable that was. We have nothing to lose, even if the necklace is never heard from again."
For the moment, her indignation had got the better of her worry. Most opinions, I recalled, had been, finally, that the disappearance was mixed up with some family affair. At any rate, here was to be the real story at last.
"You see," she continued, now almost sobbing, "it is really all, I fear, my own fault. I didn't realize that Gloria was growing so fast and so far out of my life. I've let her be brought up by governesses and servants. I've sent her to the best schools I could find. I thought it was all right. But now, too late, I realize that it is all wrong. I haven't kept close enough to her." She was rattling on in this disjointed manner, getting more and more excited, but still Kennedy made no effort to lead the conversation. "I didn't think Gloria was more than a child. But—why, Mr. Kennedy, she's been going, I find, to these afternoon dances in the city and out at a place not far from Willys Hills."
"What sort of places?" prompted Kennedy.
"The Cabaret Rouge," answered Mrs. Brackett, flashing at us a look of defiance that really masked fear of public opinion.
I knew of the place. It had an extremely unsavory reputation. In fact, there were two places of the same name, one in the city and the other out on Long Island.
Mrs. Brackett must have seen Kennedy and me exchange a look askance at the name.
"Oh, it's not a question of morals, alone," she hastened. "After all, sometimes common sense and foolishness are fair equivalents for right and wrong." Kennedy looked up quickly, genuinely surprised at this bit of worldly wisdom. "When women do stupid, dangerous things, trouble follows," she persisted, adding, "if not at once, a bit later. This is a case of it."
One could not help feeling sorry for the woman and what she had to face.
"I had hoped, oh, so dearly," she went on, a moment later, "that Gloria would marry a young man who, I know, is devoted to her, an Italian of fine family, Signor Franconi—you must have heard of him—the inventor of a new system of wireless transmission of pictures. But, with such a scandal, how can we expect it? Do you know him?"
"Not personally, though I have heard of him," returned Kennedy briefly.
Both Craig and myself had been interested in reports of his invention which he called the "Franconi telephote," by which he claimed to be able to telegraph, either over wires or by wireless, light and dark points so rapidly and in such a manner as to deceive the eye and produce at the receiving end what amounted to a continuous reproduction of a picture at the transmitting end. At least, in spite of his society leanings, Franconi was no mere dilettante inventor.
"But—the necklace," suggested Craig, after a moment, for the first time interrupting the rather rambling trend of Mrs. Brackett's story; "what has all this to do with the necklace?"
She looked at him almost despairingly.
"I don't really care for a thousand such necklaces," she cried. "It is my daughter—her good name—her—her safety!"
Suddenly she had become almost hysterical as she thought of the real purpose of her visit, which she had not yet been able to bring herself to disclose even to Kennedy. Finally, with an effort, she managed to control herself and go on.
"You see," she said, in a low tone, almost as if she were confessing some fault of her own, "Gloria has been frequenting these—recherchés places without my knowledge, and there she has become intimate with some of the fastest of the fast set.
"You ask about the necklace. I don't know, I must admit. Has some one of her friends taken advantage of her to learn our habits and get into the house and get it? Or have they put her up to getting it?" The last query was wrung from her as if by main force. She could not even breathe it without a shudder. "When the necklace was stolen," she added tremulously, "it must have been an 'inside job,' as you detectives call it. Mr. Brackett and I were away, at the time, at a week-end party. We supposed Gloria was visiting some friends in the city. But since then we have learned that she motored out with some of her dance-crazed acquaintances to the Cabaret Rouge, not far from Willys Hills. It must have been taken then—by some of them."
The recital to comparative strangers, even though they were to be trusted to right the wrong, was more than she could bear. Mrs. Brackett was now genuinely in tears, her shoulders trembling under emotion as she bowed her head. But she forced back her feelings heroically.
"We put the advertisement that way because—well, now you must understand why," she resumed, then anticipating our question, added, "But there has been no response."
I knew from her tone that, even to herself, she would not admit that Gloria might have been guilty. Yet subconsciously it must have been in her mind, and she knew it was in ours. Her voice broke again.
"Mr. Brackett has repeatedly ordered Gloria to give up her fast acquaintances. But she defies him. Even to my pleadings she has turned a deaf ear."
It was most pathetic to watch the workings of the mother's face as she was forced to say this of her daughter. All thought of the necklace was lost now.
"I—I want my daughter back," she almost wailed.
"Who are these rapid youngsters?" asked Craig gently.
"I don't know all of them," she replied. "There is young Rittenhouse Smith—he is one. The Rittenhouse Smiths, you know, are a very fine family. But young Ritter, as the younger set calls him, is wild. They've had to cut his allowance two or three times, I believe. Another of them is Rhinelander Brown. I don't think the Browns have much money, but it is a good family. Oh," she added, with a faint attempt at a smile, "I'm not the only mother who has heartaches. But the worst of it is that there are some professionals with whom they go—a dancer, Rex Du Mond, and a woman named Bernice Bentley. I don't know any more of them, but I presume there is a regular organization of these social gangsters."
"Did Signor Franconi ever go with them?" asked Craig.
"Oh, mercy, no!" she hastened.
"And they can't seem to break the gang up," ruminated Craig, evidently liking her characterization of the group.
She sighed deeply and wiped away another tear.
"I've done what I could with Gloria. I've cut her allowance—but it has done no good. I'm losing my hold on her altogether. You—you will help me—I mean, help Gloria?" she asked, eagerly, leaning forward in an appeal which must have cost her a great deal, so common is the repression of such feelings in women of her type.
"Gladly," returned Kennedy heartily. "I will do anything in my power."
Proud though she was, Mrs. Brackett could scarcely murmur her thanks.
"Where can I see Gloria?" asked Kennedy finally.
She shook her head.
"I can't say. If you want to, you may see her to-morrow, though, at the drag-hunt of the club. My husband says he is not going to take Gloria's actions without a protest. So he has peremptorily ordered her to attend the meet of the hunt club. We thought it would get her away, at least for a time, from her associates."
I thought I understood, partly at least. Bradford Brackett's election as M.F.H. had been a crowning distinction in his social career, and he did not purpose to have Gloria's escapades spoil the meet for him. Perhaps he thought this as good an occasion as any to use his power to force her back into the circle to which she rightfully belonged.
Mrs. Brackett had risen.
"How can I ever thank you?" she exclaimed, extending her hand impulsively. "I know nothing has been changed—yet. But already I feel better."
"I shall do what I can—depend on me," reiterated Kennedy modestly. "If I can do nothing before, I shall be out at the hunt club to-morrow. Perhaps I shall be there anyhow."
"This is a most peculiar situation," I remarked, a few minutes later, as Mrs. Brackett was whisked away from the laboratory door in her motor.
"Indeed it is," returned Kennedy, pacing up and down, his face wrinkled with thought. "I don't know whether I feel more like a detective or a spiritual adviser." He pulled out his watch. "Half-past four," he considered. "I'd like to have a look at that Cabaret Rouge here in town."
IT was a perfect autumn afternoon. We strode along in the bracing air until, at last, we turned into Broadway at the upper end of what might be called "Automobile Row." Motor-cars and taxi-cabs were buzzing along in an endless stream, most of them filled with women, gowned and bonneted in the latest mode.
Before the garish entrance of the Cabaret Rouge they seemed to pile up and discharge their feminine cargoes. We entered and were quickly engulfed in the tide of eager pleasure-seekers. A handsome and judicious tip to the head waiter secured us a table at the far end of a sort of mezzanine gallery from which we could look down over a railing at the various groups at the little white tables below. There we sat, careful to spend the necessary money to entitle us to stay, for, to the average New Yorker, the test seems to be not so much what one is getting for it as how much money is spent when out for a "good time."
Smooth and glittering on the surface, like its little polished dancing-floor in the middle of the squares of tables down-stairs, the Cabaret Rouge, one could see, had treacherous undercurrents, unsuspected until an insight such as we had just had revealed them. The very atmosphere seemed vibrant with laughter and music. A string band played sharp, staccato, highly accentuated music—a band of negroes, as in many of the showy and high-priced places where a keen sense of rhythm was Wanted. All around us women were smoking cigarettes. Everywhere they were sipping expensive drinks. Instinctively one felt the undertow in the very atmosphere.
I wondered who they were and where they all came from, these expensively dressed, apparently refined, though, perhaps, only veneered girls, whirling about with the pleasantest-looking young men, who expertly guided them through the mazes of the fox-trot and the canter waltz and a dozen other steps I knew not of. This was one of New York's latest and most approved devices to beguile the languid afternoons of ladies of leisure.
"There she is," pointed out Kennedy finally. "I recognize her from the pictures I've seen."
I followed the direction of his eyes. The music had started, and out on the floor, twisting in and out among the crowded couples, was one pair that seemed to attract more attention than the rest. They had come from a gay party seated in a little leather cozy corner like several about the room.
Gloria was well named. She was a striking girl, not much over nineteen surely, tall, lissome, having precisely the figure for which the modern dances must have been especially designed. I watched her attentively.
Already one could actually see on her marks of dissipation. One does not readily think of a girl as sowing her wild oats. Yet they often do. This is one of the strange anomalies of the new freedom of woman.
A few years ago, such a place would have been neither so decent nor attractive. Now it was superficially both. To it went those who never would have dared overstep the strictly conventional in the evil days when the reformer was not abroad in the land.
I watched Gloria narrowly. Clearly here was an example of a girl attracted by the glamour of the life and the flattery of its satellites. What the end of it ail might be, I preferred not to guess.
Craig was looking about at the variegated crowd. Suddenly he jogged my elbow. There, just around the turn of the railing of the gallery, sat a young man, dark of hair and eyes, of a rather distinguished foreign appearance, his face set in a scowl as he looked down on the heads of the dancers. One could have followed the tortuous course of Gloria and her partner by his eyes, which the man never took off her, even following her back to the table in the corner when the encore of the dance was finished.
The young man's face, at least, was familiar to me, though I had not met him. It was Signor Franconi.
After a few moments, Craig rose, paid his check, and moved over to the table where Franconi was sitting alone. He introduced himself, and Franconi, with easy politeness, invited us to join him.
I studied the man's face attentively. Signor Franconi was still young, in spite of the honors that had been showered on him for his many inventions. I had wondered before why such a man would be interested in a girl of Gloria's evident type. But as I studied him, I fancied I understood. To his serious mind, it was just the butterfly type that offered the greatest relief. An intellectual woman would have been merely carrying into another sphere the problems with which he was more than capable of wrestling. But there was no line of approval in his fine face of the butterfly-and-candle-singeing process that was going on here.
"What are you working on now?" asked Kennedy, as a preliminary step to drawing him out against the time when we might become better acquainted and put the conversation on a firmer basis.
"A system of wireless transmission of pictures," he returned mechanically. "I think I have vastly improved the system of Doctor Korn. You are familiar with it?"
Kennedy nodded.
"I have seen it work," he said simply.
Korn's telephotograph apparatus, I remembered, depended on the ability of the element selenium to vary the strength of an electric current passing through it in proportion to the brightness with which the selenium is illuminated.
"That system," he resumed, speaking as though his mind was not particularly on the subject just now, "produces positive pictures at one end of the apparatus by the successive transmission of many small parts separately. I have harnessed the alternating current in a brand-new way, I think. Instead of prolonging the operation, I do it all at once, projecting the image on a sheet of tiny selenium cells. My work is done. Now the thing to do is to convince the world of that."
"Then you have the telephote in actual operation?" asked Kennedy.
"Yes," he replied; "I have a little station down on the shore of the south side of the island." He handed us a card on which he wrote the address at South Side Beach. "That will admit you there at any time, if I should not be about. I am testing it out there—have several instruments on transatlantic liners. We think it may be of use in war—sending plans, photographs of spies, and such things."
He stopped suddenly. The music had started again, and Gloria was out on the dancing-floor. It was evident that, at this very important time in his career, Franconi's mind was on other things.
"Everyone seems to become easily acquainted with everyone else here," remarked Craig, bending over the rail.
"I suppose one cannot dance without partners," returned Franconi absently.
We continued to watch the dancers. I knew enough of these young fellows, merely by their looks, to see that most of them were essential replicas of one type. Certainly most of them could have qualified as social gangsters, without scruples, without visible means of support, without character or credit, but not without a certain vicious kind of ambition.
They seemed to have an unlimited capacity for dancing, freak foods, joy rides, and clothes. Clothes were to them what a jimmy is to a burglar. Their English coats were so tight that one wondered how they bent and swayed without bursting. Smart clothes and smart manners such as they affected are very fascinating to some women.
"Who are they all, do you suppose?" I queried.
"All sorts and conditions," returned Kennedy. "Wall Street fellows whose pocketbooks have been thinned by dull times on the exchange; actors out of engagements; law clerks; some of them even college students. They seem to be a new class. I can't think of any other way they could pick up a living more easily than by this polite parasitism. None of them has any money. They don't get anything from the owner of the cabaret, of course, except perhaps the right to sign checks for a limited amount, in the hope that they may attract new business. It's grafting, pure and simple. The women are their dupes; they pay the bills—and even now and then something for private lessons in dancing in a 'studio.'"
Franconi was dividing his attention between what Kennedy was saying and watching Gloria and her partner, who was tall and spare, as must be the successful dancing man of to-day.
"There's a fellow named Du Mond," he put in.
"Who is he?" asked Craig, as though we had never heard of him.
"To borrow one of your Americanisms," returned Franconi, "I think he's the man who puts the 'tang' in tango. From what I hear, though, I think he borrows the 'fox' from fox-trot and plucks the feathers from the 'lame duck.'"
Kennedy smiled, but immediately became interested in a tall, blond girl who had been talking to Du Mond just before the dancing began. I noticed that she was not dancing but stood in the background most of the time, giving a subtle look of appraisal to the men who sat at tables and the girls who also sat alone. Now and then she would move from one table to another with that easy, graceful glide which showed she had been a dancer from girlhood. Always after such an excursion we saw other couples, who had been watching in lonely wistfulness, now made happy by a chance to join the throng.
"Who is that woman?" I asked.
"I believe her name is Bernice Bentley," replied Franconi. "She's the—well, they call her the official hostess—a sort of introducer. That's the reason why, as you observed, there is no lack of friendliness and partners. She just arranges introductions, very tactfully of course, for she is experienced."
I regarded her with astonishment. I had never dreamed that such a thing was possible, even in cosmopolitan New York. What could these women be thinking of? Some of them looked more than capable of taking care of themselves, but there must be many, like Gloria, who were not. What did they know of the men, except their clothes and steps?
As we watched, we saw a slender, rather refined-looking girl come in and sit quietly at a table in the rear. I wondered what the official introducer would do about her, and waited. Sure enough, it was not long before Miss Bentley appeared with one of the dancing men in tow. To my surprise, the "hostess" was coldly turned down. What it was that happened, I did not know, but it was evident that a change had taken place. Unobtrusively, Bernice Bentley seemed to catch the roving eye of Du Mond while he was dancing and direct it toward the little table. I saw his face flush suddenly, and, a moment later, he managed to work Gloria about to the opposite side of the dancing-floor and, though the music had not stopped, on some pretext or other, to join the party in the corner again.
Gloria did not want to stop dancing, but it seemed as if Du Mond exercised some sort of influence over her, for she did just as he wished. Was she really afraid of him? Who was the little woman who had been like a skeleton at a feast?
Almost before we knew it, it seemed that the little party had tired of the Cabaret Rouge. Of course we could hear nothing, but it seemed as if Du Mond were proposing something and had carried his point. At any rate, the waiter was sent on a mysterious excursion, and the party made as though it were preparing to leave.
Little had been said by either Franconi or ourselves, but it was by a sort of instinct that we, too, paid our check and moved down to the coat-room ahead of them. In an angle we waited until Gloria and her party appeared. Du Mond was not with them. We looked out of the door. Before the cabaret stood a smart hired limousine, which was evidently Gloria's. She would not have dared use her own motor on such an excursion. They drove off without seeing us, and a moment later Du Mond and Bernice Bentley appeared.
"Thank you for the tip," I heard him whisper. "I thought the best thing was to get them away without me. I'll catch them in a taxi later. You're off at seven? Ritter will call for you? Then we'll wait and all go out together. It's safer out there."
Just what it all meant I could not say, but it interested me to know that young Ritter Smith and Bernice Bentley seemed on such good terms. Evidently the gay party were transferring the scene of their gaiety to the country place of the Cabaret Rouge. But why?
We parted at the door with Franconi, who repeated his invitation to visit his workshop down at the beach. I started to follow Franconi out, but Kennedy drew me back.
"Why did you suppose I let them go?" he explained under his breath, as we retreated to the angle again. "I wanted to watch that little woman who came in alone."
We had not long to wait. Scarcely had Du Mond disappeared when she came out and stood in the entrance while a boy summoned a taxi-cab for her. Kennedy improved the opportunity by calling another for us and, by the time she was ready to drive off, we were able to follow her. She drove to the Prince Henry Hotel, where she dismissed the machine and entered. We did the same.
"By the way," asked Kennedy casually, sauntering up to the desk after she had stopped to get her keys and a letter, "can you tell me who that woman was?"
The clerk ran his finger down the names on the register. At last he paused and turned the book around to us. His finger indicated "Mrs. Katherine Du Mond, Chicago."
Kennedy and I looked at each other in amazement. Du Mond was married, and his wife was in town! She had not made a scene. She had merely watched. What could have been more evident than that she was seeking evidence, and such evidence could only have been for a court of law in a divorce suit? The possibilities which the situation opened up for Gloria seemed frightful. We left the hotel, and Kennedy hurried down Broadway, turning off at the office of a young detective, Chase, whom he used often on matters of pure routine.
"Chase," he instructed, when we were seated in the office, "you recall that advertisement of the lost necklace in the Star by LaRue & Company?"
The young man nodded.
"Well," resumed Kennedy, "I want you to search the pawnshops, particularly those of the Tenderloin, for any trace you can find of it. Let me know if it is only a rumor that you discover."
There was nothing more that we could do that night, though Kennedy found out over the telephone by a ruse, that, as he suspected, the country place of the Cabaret Rouge was the objective of the gay party which we had seen.
THE next day was that of the hunt, and we motored out to the North Shore Hunt Club. It was a splendid day, and the ride was just enough to put an edge on the meet that was to follow.
We pulled up at last before the rambling Colonial building which the hunt club boasted as its home. Mrs. Brackett was waiting for us with horses.
"I'm so glad you came," she greeted us, aside. "Gloria is here—under protest. That young man over there, talking to her, is Ritter Smith. Rhine Brown, as they call him, was about a moment ago—oh, yes, there he is, coming over on that chestnut mare to talk to them. I wanted you to see them here. After the hunt, if you care to, I think you might go over to the Cabaret Rouge out here. You might find out something."
She was evidently quite proud of her handsome daughter and that anything should come up to smirch her name cut her deeply.
The hunt club was a swagger organization, even in these degenerate days when farmers will not tolerate broken fences and trampled crops, and when democratic ideas interfere sadly with the follies of the rich. In a cap with a big peak, a scarlet hunting-coat, and white breeches with top-boots, Brackett himself made a striking figure cf M.F.H.
There were thirty or forty in the field, the men in silk hats. For the most part one could not see that the men treated Gloria unusually. But it was evident that the women did. In fact, the coldness even extended to her mother, who would literally have been frozen out if it had not been for her quasi-official position. I could see now that there was a fight on for Mrs. Brackett's social position.
As we watched Gloria, we could see that Franconi was hovering around, unsuccessfully trying to get an opportunity to say a word to her alone. Just before we were off, a telegram came to her, which she read and hastily stuffed into a pocket of her riding-habit.
But that was all that happened, and I fell to studying the various types of human nature, from the beginner who rode very hard and very badly and made himself generally odious to the M.F.H. to the old seasoned hunter who talked of the old days of real foxes and how he used to know all the short cuts to the coverts.
It was a keen, crisp day. Already a man had been over the field pulling along the ground a little bag of aniseed, and now the hunt was about to start.
Noses down, feathering zigzag over the ground, sniffing earth and leaves and grass, the hounds were brought up. One seemed to get a good whiff of the trail and lifted his head with a half-yelp, half-whine, high pitched, frenzied, never to be forgotten. Others joined in the music. "Gone away!" sounded the huntsman as if there were a real fox. We were off after them. Drag-hounds, however, for the most part run mute and very fast, so that that picturesque feature was missing. But the light soil and rail fences of Long Island were ideal for drag hunting.
We went for four or five miles. Then there was a check for the stragglers to come up. Some had fresh mounts, and all of us were glad of the breathing-space while the M.F.H. "held" the hounds.
While we waited, we saw that Mrs. Brackett was riding about quickly, as if something were on her mind. A moment she stopped to speak to her husband, then galloped over to us.
"Gloria hasn't come up with the rest!" she exclaimed breathlessly. Already Brackett had told those about him, and all was confusion. It was only a moment when the members of the hunt were scouring the country over which we had passed, with something really definite to find. Kennedy did not pause. "Come on, Walter!" he shouted, striking out down the road, with me hard after him.
We pulled up before a road-house of remarkable quaintness and luxury of appointment, one of the hundreds about New York which the automobile has recreated. Before it swung the weathered sign: "Cabaret Rouge." To our hurried inquiries, the manager admitted that Du Mond had been there, but alone, and had left. Gloria had not come there. A moment later the sound of hoofs on the hard road interrupted us, and Ritter Smith dashed up. "Just overtook a farmer down the road," he panted. "Says he saw an automobile waiting at the stone bridge, and later it passed him with a girl and a man in it."
Together we retraced the way to the stone bridge. Sure enough, there on the side of the road were marks where a car had pulled up. The grass about was trampled, and as we searched, Kennedy reached down and picked up something white. At least it had been white. But now it was spotted with fresh blood, as though some one had tried to stop a nosebleed.
He looked at it more closely. In the corner was embroidered a little "G."
Evidently there had been a struggle and a car had whizzed off. Gloria was gone. But with whom? And why the struggle?
Absolutely nothing more developed from the search. An alarm was at once sent out, and the police all over the country notified. Mrs. Brackett was frantic. But it was not now the scandal that worried her. It was Gloria's safety.
THAT night, in the laboratory, Kennedy took the handkerchief, and with the blood on it made a most peculiar test before a strange-looking little instrument.
It seemed to consist of a little cylinder of glass immersed in water kept at the temperature of the body. Between two minute wire pincers, or serres, in the cylinder was a very small piece of some tissue. To the lower serre was attached a thread. The upper one was attached to a sort of lever ending in a pen that moved over a ruled card.
"Every emotion," remarked Kennedy, as he watched the movement of the pen in fine, zigzag lines over the card, "produces its physiological effect. I suppose you have heard of the recent studies of Doctor Walter Cannon, of Harvard, on the group of remarkable alterations in bodily economy under emotion? But one cannot see such evidences of emotion if he is not present at the time. How can we reconstruct them?" He paused a moment, then resumed: "There are organs hidden deep in the body which do not reveal so easily the emotions. But the effect often outlasts the actual emotion. There are special methods by which one can study the feelings. That is what I have been doing here."
"But how can you?" I queried.
"There is what is called the sympathetic nervous system," he explained. "Above the kidney there are also glands, called the suprarenal, which excrete a substance known as adrenin. In extraordinarily small amounts adrenin affects this sympathetic system. In emotions of various kinds, a reflex action is sent to the suprarenal glands which causes a pouring into the blood of adrenin.
"On the handkerchief of Gloria Brackett I obtained plenty of comparatively fresh blood. Here, in this machine, I have between these two pincers a minute segment of rabbit intestine."
He withdrew the solution from the cylinder with a pipette, then introduced some more of the dissolved blood from the handkerchief. The first effect was a strong contraction of the rabbit intestine, then, in a minute or so, the contractions became fairly even with the base-line on the card.
"Such tissue," he remarked, "is noticeably affected by even one part in over a million of adrenin. See—here, by the writing lever, the rhythmical contractions are recorded. Such a strip of tissue will live for hours, will contract and relax beautifully with a regular rhythm which, as you see, can be graphically recorded. This is my adrenin test."
Carefully he withdrew the ruled paper with its tracings.
"It's a very simple test after all," he said, laying beside this tracing another, which he had made previously. "There you see the difference between what I may call 'quiet blood' and 'excited blood.'"
I looked at the two sets of tracings. They were markedly different.
"What do they show to an expert?" I asked, perplexed.
"Fear," he answered laconically. "Gloria did not elope. She was forced to go!"
"Attacked and carried off?" I queried.
"I did not say that," he replied. "Perhaps our original theory that her nose was bleeding may be correct. It might have started in the excitement, the anger, and fear at what happened, whatever it was. Certainly the amount of adrenin in her blood shows that she was laboring under strong enough emotion."
Our telephone-bell rang insistently, and Kennedy answered it.
"What was it?" I asked eagerly, as he hung up the receiver.
"Chase has traced the necklace," he reported, "that is, he has discovered the separate stones, unset, pawned in several shops. The tickets were issued to a girl whose description exactly fits Gloria."
I could only stare at him. Gloria must have taken the necklace herself. Though we had feared it and tried to discount it, nevertheless the certainty came as a shock.
"Why should she have taken it?" I considered.
"For many possible reasons," returned Kennedy. "Her own income probably went to keeping those harpies going. Besides, her mother had cut her allowance. She may have needed money very badly."
"Perhaps they had run her into debt," I agreed.
"How about that other little woman we saw?" suggested Kennedy. "You remember how Gloria seemed to stand in fear of Du Mond? Who knows but that he made her get it to save her reputation? A girl in Gloria's position might do many foolish things. But to be named as corespondent, that would be fatal."
Suddenly the door opened. Mrs. Brackett entered. She was a pathetic figure as Kennedy placed an easy chair for her.
"Why, what's the matter?" asked Kennedy. "Have you heard anything new?"
She did not answer directly, but silently handed him a yellow slip of paper. On a telegraph blank were written simply the words:
DON'T TRY TO FOLLOW ME. I'VE GONE TO BE A WAR-NURSE. WHEN I MAKE GOOD, I WILL LET YOU KNOW. GLORIA.
We looked at each other in blank amazement. That was hardly an easy way to trace her. How could one ever find out now where she was, in the present state of affairs abroad, even supposing it were not a ruse to cover up something?
Somehow I felt that the message did not tell the story. Where was Du Mond? Had he fled too—perhaps forced her to go with him when Mrs. Du Mond appeared? The message did not explain the struggle and the fear.
"Oh, Mr. Kennedy," pleaded Mrs. Brackett, all thought of her former pride gone, as she actually held out her hands imploringly and almost fell on her knees, "can't you find her—can't you do something?"
"Have you a photograph of Gloria?" he asked hurriedly.
"Yes," she cried eagerly, reaching into her mesh bag, and drawing one out. "I carry it with me always. Why?"
"Come," exclaimed Kennedy, seizing it. "It occurs to me that it is now or never that this device of Franconi's must prove that it is some good. If she really went, she wasted no time. There's just a bare chance that the telephote has been placed on some of these vessels that are carrying munitions abroad. Franconi says that he has developed it for its war-value."
AS fast as Mrs. Brackett's chauffeur could drive us, we motored down to South Side Beach and sought out the little workshop directly on the ocean where Franconi had told us that we should always be welcome. He was not there, but an assistant was. Kennedy showed him the card that Franconi had given us.
"Show me how the machine works," he asked, while Mrs. Brackett and I waited aside, scarcely able to curb our impatience.
"Well," began the assistant, "this is a screen of very minute and sensitive selenium cells. I don't know how to describe the process better than to say that the tones of sound, the human voice, have hundreds of gradations which are transmitted, as you know, by wireless now. Gradations of light, which are all that are necessary to produce the illusion of a picture, are far simpler than those of sound. Here, in this projector—"
"That is the transmitting part of the apparatus?" interrupted Kennedy brusquely. "That holder?"
"Yes; you see there are hundreds of alternating conductors and insulators, all synchronized with hundreds of similar receivers at the—"
"Let me see you try this photograph," interrupted Kennedy again, handing over the picture of Gloria which Mrs. Brackett had given him. "Signor Franconi told me he had the telephote on several outgoing liners. Let me see if you can transmit it. Is there any way of sending a wireless message from this place?"
The assistant had shoved the photograph into the holder from which each section was projected on the selenium-cell screen.
"I have a fairly powerful plant here," he replied.
Quickly Kennedy wrote out a message, briefly describing the reason why the picture was transmitted and asking that any station on shipboard that received it would have a careful search made of the passengers for any young woman, no matter what name was assumed, who might resemble the photograph.
Though nothing could be expected immediately at best, it was at least some satisfaction to know that through the invisible air waves, wirelessly, the only means now of identifying Gloria was being flashed far and wide to all the big ships within a day's distance or less on which Franconi had established his system as a test.
The telephote had finished its work. Now there was nothing to do but wait. It was a slender thread on which hung the hope of success.
While we waited, Mrs. Brackett was eating her heart out with anxiety. Kennedy took the occasion to call up the New York police on "long distance." They had no clue to Gloria. Nor had they been able to find a trace of Du Mond. Mrs. Du Mond also had disappeared. At the Cabaret Rouge, Bernice Bentley had been held and put through a third degree, without disclosing a thing, if indeed she knew anything. I wondered whether, at such a crisis, Du Mond, too, might not have taken the opportunity to flee the country.
We had almost given up hope when suddenly a little buzzer on the telephote warned the operator that something was coming over it.
"The Monfalcone," he remarked, interpreting the source of the impulses.
We gathered breathlessly about the complicated instrument as, on a receiving screen composed of innumerable pencils of light polarized and acting on a set of mirrors, each corresponding to the cells of the selenium screen and tuned to them, as it were, a thin film or veil seemed gradually to clear up, as the telephote slowly got itself into equilibrium at both ends of the air line. Gradually the face of a girl appeared.
"Gloria!" gasped Mrs. Brackett, in a tone that sounded as if ten years had been added to her life.
"Wait," cautioned the operator. "There's a written message to follow."
On the same screen now came, in letters that Mrs. Brackett, in her joy, recognized, the message:
I couldn't help it. I was blackmailed into taking the necklace. Even at the hunt, I received another demand. I did not mean to go, but I was carried off by force before I could pay the second demand. Now I'm glad of it. Forgive us. Gloria.
"Us?" repeated Mrs. Brackett, not comprehending.
"Look—another picture," pointed Kennedy.
We bent over as the face of a man seemed to dissolve more clearly in place of the writing.
"Thank God!" exclaimed Mrs. Brackett fervently, reading the face by a sort of intuition before it cleared enough for us to recognize. "He has saved her from herself!"
It was Franconi!
Slowly it faded, and in its place appeared another written message.
Recalled to Italy for war-service. I took her with me by force. It was the only way. Civil ceremony in New York yesterday. Religious will follow at Rome.