"PERPETUAL motion sounds foolish, I'll admit; but, Professor Kennedy, this Creighton self-acting motor does things I can't explain."
Craig looked perplexed as he gazed from Adele Laidlaw, his young and very pretty client, to me. We had heard a great deal about the young lady, one of the wealthiest heiresses of the country. She paused a moment and looked at us, evidently thinking of the many schemes which people had devised to get her money away from her.
"Really," she went on, "I haven't a friend to whom I can go except Mr. Tresham—no one on whom I can rely for advice in a case of this kind."
Several times, I recollected, there had been rumors that she was engaged to Leslie Tresham, who had been the lawyer for her father before his death. The rumors had always been denied, however, though I am sure it was not Tresham's fault.
"You see," she continued, as Craig still said nothing, "father was of a mechanical turn of mind—in fact, so was the whole family, and I suppose I have inherited it. I'm just crazy over cars and boats. Anyhow, I was introduced to Mr. Creighton, and he seemed so earnest and his work was so interesting that I bought a little of his stock. Now he needs more money to perfect his motor. Perhaps the thing is all right, but—well, what do I really know about it?"
One could not help feeling a great deal of sympathy for her. She was not the type of woman who would be easily misled; yet I could imagine that she must constantly be on her guard against schemers of all sorts.
"Hm," mused Kennedy, with a smile, eying our visitor keenly; "I've been consulted on about everything from pickpockets to the Fountain of Youth. Now it's perpetual motion. I must say, Miss Laidlaw, your case has a decided scientific interest for me, as well as a personal one. I'd like to look at this wonderful machine if you can arrange it."
"I can do that," she answered confidently. "May I use your telephone?"
She had to wait some time for an answer to her call, but finally she got Creighton on the wire.
"He had just come in," she said, hanging up the receiver. "He'll be there if we come down right away."

ADELE LAIDLAW drove us down-town in her own high-powered car which, true to her mechanical instincts, she handled herself. She drove it very well, too. In fact, I felt safer than with Kennedy who, like many drivers, was inclined to take chances when he was at the wheel.
"How did you become interested in this perpetual-motion machine, Miss Laidlaw?" he asked, as we threaded our way through the dense traffic.
"Well, I suppose everyone knows that I'm interested in engines," she replied, as we waited for the signal from a policeman at a cross-street. "I've spent a good deal on them in speed-boats and in racing cars, too. An acquaintance, a friend of Mr. Creighton's, a Mrs. Barry—Mr. Tresham knows her—thought perhaps I might use the motor somehow and told me of it. I went down to see it, and—I must confess that it fascinated me."
I had not yet got myself accustomed to a girl who was interested in such things, though, in these days, I must admit I saw no reason why she should not be. Kennedy was dividing his attention between the admirable manner in which she handled the car and her very expressive face. Was it really, I wondered, that Creighton, more than his motor, had fascinated her?
She drew up before the Consolidated Bank building, a modern steel-and-concrete structure in the up-town business section.
"The laboratory is next door," she said, as she let the car slide ahead a few feet more. "Mr. Tresham's office is in the bank building. I've had to go there so often since father died that I stopped through force of habit, I suppose."
Mindful of Kennedy's admiration for Freud, his theory of forgetting occurred to me. Was there any significance in the mistake? Had the unconscious blunder betrayed something which, perhaps, she herself consciously did not realize? Was it Tresham, after all, whom she really admired and wished to see?
Creighton's workshop was in an old two-story brick building, evidently awaiting only the development of the neighborhood before it was torn down. The two buildings were in marked contrast. Which of them typified Creighton? Was he hopelessly out of date or really ahead of his time? I must confess to having had a lively curiosity about meeting the inventor.
The entrance to the laboratory from the street was through a large door into a room in which was a carpenter's bench. On one side were some powerful winches and a large assortment of tools. In the back of the room, a big door led to another room on the ground floor to the rear.
"Mr. Creighton's is up-stairs," remarked Miss Laidlaw, turning past the locked door and going up a worn flight of steps.
"Whose shop is that?" asked Kennedy, indicating the door.
"I don't know who rents these rooms down here," she replied.
Up the stairway we went to the second floor. On the top landing stood some old machinery. In a little room on one side was a big desk, as well as books, instruments, and drawings of all sorts. Opposite this room was another little room, with many bits of expensive machinery on shelves and tables. Back of these two, and up a step, was a large room, the full width of the building, the workshop of the inventor, into which she led us.
"I've brought a couple of friends of mine who may be interested in the vibrodyne motor," Miss Laidlaw introduced us.
"Very pleased to meet you, gentlemen," Creighton returned. "Before we get through I think you'll agree with me that you never dreamed of anything more wonderful than this motor of mine."
He was a large, powerfully built man, with a huge head, square jaw with heavy side whiskers, and eyes that moved restlessly under a shock of iron-gray hair. One got the impression that his cranium housed a superabundant supply of brains.
Every action was nervous and quick. Even his speech was rapid, as though his ideas outstripped his tongue. He impressed one as absorbed in this thing, which, he said frankly, had been his life-study, every nerve strained to make it succeed.
"Just what is this force you call vibrodyne?" asked Craig, gazing about at the curious litter of paraphernalia in the shop.
"Of course I'm willing to admit," began Creighton quickly, "that never before by any mechanical, electrical, thermal, or other means has a self-moving motor been made." He paused, apparently to let us grasp the significance of what he was about to say. "But is it impossible, as some of the old scientists have proved to their own satisfaction it must be?" he went on, warming up to his subject. "May there not be molecular, atomic, even ionic forces of which we have not dreamed? You have only to go back a few years and study radioactivity, for instance, to see how ideas may change. To-day," he added emphatically, "the conservation of energy, in the old sense at least, has been overthrown. Gentlemen, all the old laws must be modified by my discovery of vibrodyne. I loose new forces—I create energy."
I watched him narrowly as he proposed and rapidly answered his own questions. He was talking quite as much for Miss Laidlaw's benefit, I thought, as ours. In fact, it was evident that her interest in the machine and in himself pleased him greatly.
I knew already that, though the search after perpetual motion through centuries had brought failure, it still captivated a certain type of inventive mind. I knew, also, that, just as the exact squaring of the circle and the transmutation of metals brought out some great mathematical discoveries and much of modern chemistry, so perpetual motion had brought out the greatest of all generalizations of physics—the conservation of energy.
Yet here was a man who questioned the infallibility of that generalization. Actually taking the ultramodern view that matter is a form of energy, he was asserting that energy, in some way, might be created or destroyed, at least transformed in a manner that no one had ever understood before. To him, radioactivity, which had overthrown or amplified many of the old ideas, was only a beginning.
"Here is the machine," he pointed out at last, still talking and leading us proudly across the littered floor of his laboratory.
It seemed, at first glance, to consist of a circular iron frame, about a foot and a half in diameter, firmly bolted to the floor.
"I have it fastened down because, as you will see, it develops such tremendous power," explained the inventor, adding, as he pointed above it, "That is all that the power is developed from, too."
On a shelf was a Daniell battery of four cells. In the porous cup was bichromate of potash and in the outer vessel dilute sulphuric acid.
"Let me show you how I get two-and-a-half horse-power out of three ounces of zinc for nine hours," went on Creighton proudly. "As you doubtless know, the usual thing is one horse-power per pound of zinc per hour. Ultimately, I expect to perfect the process until I get a thousand horse-power from an ounce in this vibrodyne motor."
He started the engine by attaching the wires from the comparatively weak Daniell cells. Slowly it began to move, gaining speed, until, finally, the very floor shook from the great power developed and the rapidity of the motion. It seemed incredible that the small current from the battery should develop such power, and I looked at Kennedy in amazement.
"There's a carelessly—or purposely—ill balanced fly-wheel, I suspect," whispered Craig to me surreptitiously.
"Yes, but the power?" I persisted.
He shook his head. Evidently he was not convinced, but had no theory yet.
Adele Laidlaw looked at Craig questioningly, as though to read what he thought of it. Before her, he betrayed nothing. Now and then she would look earnestly at Creighton. It was evident that she admired him very much, yet there seemed to be something about him that she did not quite understand.

JUST then the telephone-bell rang. Creighton stopped his engine and left us for a moment to answer the call. It slowed down and came to rest. Quickly Kennedy pulled out his watch and pried the crystal off the face. He walked over to a basin and filled the crystal with a few drops of water. Then he set it down on the table. I looked at it closely. As nearly as I could make out, there seemed to be a slight agitation on the surface of the thin film of water in the glass. Craig smiled quietly to himself and flicked the water into the sink, returning the crystal to his watch.
I did not understand just what it was that Craig was after, but I felt sure that there was some kind of vibration that he had discovered. Meanwhile, we could hear Creighton telephoning.
"Why, no," I heard him answer mono-syllabically but in a tone that was carefully modulated; "not alone. Let me call you up soon."
The conversation ended almost as abruptly as it had begun. Somehow, it seemed evident to me that Creighton had been talking to a woman. Though he apparently had not wanted to say anything before us, he could not disguise this reluctance. From his quick, nervous manner with us, I had concluded that no mere man could have commanded so deferential a tone from him.
A moment later he rejoined us, resuming his praises of his motor. By this time I had come to recognize that he was a master in the manipulation of fantastic terms, which I, at least, did not understand. Therein, perhaps, lay their potency, though I doubt whether Kennedy himself knew what Creighton meant when he talked of "polar sympathy," "interatomic ether," "molecular disintegration," and "orbitic chaos."
I saw that Adele Laidlaw was watching Creighton narrowly now. Was it on account of the telephone call? Who had it been? Perhaps, it occurred to me, it was Mrs. Barry. Was Creighton afraid of arousing the jealousy of Adele Laidlaw?
There seemed to be nothing more of importance that Craig could learn at present, and we soon bade Creighton good-by, leaving with Miss Laidlaw.
"I'd like to meet this Mrs. Barry," remarked Craig, as we passed out of the building. He said it evidently to see just how Miss Laidlaw would take it.
"I think I can arrange that," she replied colorlessly. "I'll ask her to visit me this afternoon. You can call casually."
We accompanied her to her car, promising to report as soon as possible if we discovered anything new.
"I'm going in to call on Tresham," remarked Craig, turning into the bank building.
As Kennedy walked through the corridor of the building, he paused and bent down, as though examining the wall. There was a crack in the concrete in the side wall toward the Creighton laboratory.
"Do you suppose vibration caused it?" I asked, remembering his watch-crystal test.
Craig shook his head.
"The vibrations in a building can be shown by a watch-crystal full of water. You saw the surface of the liquid with its minute waves. There's vibration, all right, but that is not the cause of such cracks as these."
He stood for a moment regarding the crack attentively. On the floor on which we were was the Consolidated Bank itself. Beneath us were the Consolidated Safety-Deposit Vaults.
"What did cause them, then?" I asked.
"Apparently escaping currents of electricity are causing electrolysis of the bank building," he replied.
"Electrolysis?" I repeated mechanically.
"Yes; I suppose you know how stray or vagrant currents affect steel and concrete?" I shook my head in the negative. "Well," he explained, as we stood there, "I believe that, in one government test, at least, it was shown that when an electric current of high voltage passes from steel to concrete, the latter is cracked and broken. Often a mechanical pressure as great as four or five thousand pounds a square inch is exerted, and there is rapid destruction due to the heating effect of the current." I expressed my surprise at what he had discovered. "The danger is easily overestimated," he hastened to add. "But in this case I think it is real, though probably it is a special and extreme condition. Still, it is special and extreme conditions which we are in the habit of encountering in our cases, Walter. That is what we must look out for. In this instance, the destruction due to electrolysis is most likely caused by the oxidation of the iron anode. The oxides which are formed are twice as great in volume as the iron was originally, and the resulting pressure is what causes the concrete to break. I think we shall find that this condition will bear strict watching."
For a moment, Kennedy stopped at the little office of the superintendent of the building, in the rear.
"I was just wondering whether you had noticed those cracks in the walls down the corridor," remarked Kennedy, after a brief introduction.
The superintendent looked at him suspiciously. Evidently he feared we perhaps represented some rival building and might try to scare away his tenants.
"Oh, that's nothing," he said confidently. "Just the building settling a bit—easily fixed."
"The safety-vault company haven't complained?" persisted Kennedy, determined to get something out of the agent.
"No, indeed," he returned; "I guess they've got troubles of their own—real ones."
"How's that?" asked Craig.
"Why, I believe their alarm system's out of order," he replied. "Some of the fine wires in it burned out, I think. Defective wiring, I guess. Oh, they've had it patched up, changed about a little—it's all right now, they say. But they've had a deuce of a time with the alarm ringing at all sorts of hours, and not a trace of trouble."
I looked quickly at Craig. The superintendent had unwittingly furnished us with another clue. I could not ask Craig before him, and I forgot to do so later, but, to me at least, it seemed as if this might be due to induction from the stray currents.
"No one here seems to have suspected the Creighton motor, anyhow," commented Craig to me, as we thanked the superintendent and walked across to the elevators.

WE rode up to Tresham's office, which was on the third floor, on the side of the building toward Creighton's laboratory. In fact, one of the windows opened almost on the roof of the brick building next door.
We found Tresham in his office.
"Miss Laidlaw told me she was going to consult you," he remarked, as we introduced ourselves. "I'm glad she did so."
Tresham was a large, well-built fellow, apparently athletically inclined, clean shaven, with dark hair that was getting very thin. He seemed quite at ease as he talked with us; yet I could tell that he was weighing us all the time, as lawyers will do.
"What do you think of Creighton's motor?" opened Kennedy. "You've seen it, I suppose?"
"Oh, yes," he replied quickly and jerkily. "Since Miss Laidlaw became interested, he's been in here to have me look over his application for a patent. You know, I used to be a patent lawyer for a number of years until I decided to branch out into general practise. Legally, Creighton seems to be sound enough. Of course, you know, the Patent Office won't grant a patent on a machine such as he claims without a rigid demonstration. He needs money, he says, for that. If his idea is sound, I don't see any reason why he shouldn't get a basic patent."
Tresham paused. I was conscious that he was furtively watching the face of Kennedy.
"It's the mechanical end of it that I don't understand," continued Tresham, after a pause. "Creighton claims to have discovered a new force which he calls vibrodyne. I think it is just as well that Miss Laidlaw has decided to consult a scientist about it before she puts any more money into the thing. I can't say I approve of her interest in it—though, of course, I know next to nothing about it, except from the legal standpoint."
"Who is that Mrs. Barry of whom Miss Laidlaw spoke?" asked Kennedy, a moment later.
"I believe she is a friend of Creighton's. Somehow she got acquainted with Miss Laidlaw and introduced her to him."
"You know her?" queried Craig casually.
"Oh, yes," came the frank reply. "She has been in to see me, too, first to interest me in the motor, and then to consult me about various legal points in connection with it."
I felt sure that Tresham was more than just a bit jealous of his pretty client. Certainly his tone was intended to convey the impression that he wished she would leave her affairs entirely in his hands.
"You don't know anything more about her—where she came from—her connections?" added Craig.
"Hardly more than you do," asserted Tresham. "I've only seen the woman a few times. In fact, I should be glad to know more about her—and about Creighton, too. I hope that, if you find out anything, you'll let me know, so that I can protect Miss Laidlaw's interests."
"I shall do so," promised Kennedy, rising.
"I'll do the same," agreed Tresham, extending his hand. "I see no reason why we shouldn't work together for—my client."
There was no mistaking the fact that Tresham would have liked to be able to say something more intimate than "client." Perhaps he might have been nearer to it if her interest in him had not been diverted by this wonderful motor. At any rate, I fancied he had little love for Creighton. Yet, when I reflected afterward, it seemed like a wide gulf that must separate a comparatively impecunious lawyer from a wealthy girl like Adele Laidlaw.
Kennedy was not through yet with his effort to learn something by a thorough investigation of the neighborhood. For some time after we left Tresham's office, he stood in the doorway of the bank building, looking about as though he hated to leave without establishing some vantage-point from which to watch what was going on in
Creighton's laboratory.
"Of course I can't very well get into the safety-vault under the bank," he mused. "I wish I could."
He walked past Creighton's, without seeing anything happen. The next building was a similar two-story brick affair. A sign on it read, "Studios and Offices For Rent."
An idea seemed to be suggested to him by the sign. He wheeled and entered the place. Inquiry brought out a caretaker who showed us several rooms unoccupied, among them one vacant on the first floor. Kennedy looked it over carefully, and ended by hiring it.
"I can't move my stuff in for a couple of days," he told the caretaker. "Meanwhile, I may have the key, I suppose?"
He had paid a good deposit, and the key was readily forthcoming.
The hiring of the ground-floor room accomplished without exciting suspicion, Kennedy and I made a hasty trip up to his own laboratory, where he took a small box from a cabinet and hurried back to the taxi-cab which had brought us up-town.

BACK again in the bare room which he had acquired, Craig set to work immediately installing a peculiar instrument which he took from the package. It seemed to consist of two rods much like electric-light carbons, fixed horizontally in a wooden support with a spindle-shaped bit of carbon between the two ends of the rods. Wires were connected with binding-screws at the free ends of the carbon rods.
First, Craig made a connection with an electric-light socket, from which he removed the bulb, cutting in a rheostat. Then he attached the free wires from the carbons to a sort of telephone head-gear and switched on the current. "What is it?" I asked curiously. "A geophone, he replied simply.
"And what is a geophone?" I inquired.
"Literally an earth-phone," he explained. "It is really the simplest form of telephone, applied to the earth. You saw what it was. Any high-school student of physics can make one, even with two or three dry batteries in circuit."
"But what does it do?" I asked.
"It is really designed to detect earth-vibrations. All that is necessary is to set the carbon-stick arrangement, which is the transmitter of this telephone, on the floor, place oneself at the other end, and listen. A trained ear can readily detect rumblings. Really it is doing in a different and often better way what the seismograph does. This instrument is so sensitive that it will record the slamming of a cellar door across the street. No one can go up those stairs next door without letting me know it, no matter how cautious he is about it." Craig stood there some minutes, holding the thing over his ears and listening intently. "The vibrodyne machine isn't running," he remarked finally, after repeated adjustments of the geophone.
"But some one is in that little room under Creighton's workshop. I suspected that something was down thereafter that watch-crystal test of mine. Now I know it."
There was no excuse yet, however, for breaking into the room on the other side of the wall and under Creighton's. Kennedy went out and watched. Though we waited some time, nobody came out. He went back to our own room in the rear of the first floor. Though we both listened some time, neither of us could now hear a sound through the geophone except those made by passing trolleys and street-vehicles.
Inquiry about the neighborhood did not develop who was the tenant of that room or what was his business. The room back of the locked door which Miss Laidlaw had passed was shrouded in mystery.
Nothing at all of any value was being recorded by the geophone when Kennedy glanced quickly at his watch.
"If we are to see Miss Laidlaw and meet that Mrs. Barry, we had better be on our way," he remarked hurriedly.

MISS LAIDLAW was living in a handsome apartment on Central Park West. We gave our cards to the man at the door of her suite, who bowed us into a little reception-room. We entered and waited. Suddenly we were aware that some one in the next room was talking. Apparently two women were there, and they were not taking care how loud they spoke.
"Then you object to my even knowing Mr. Creighton?" asked one of the voices, pausing, evidently, for a reply which the other did not choose to make. "I suppose if it was Mr. Tresham, you'd object, too."
There was something "catty" and taunting about the voice. It was a hard voice, the voice of a woman who had seen much and felt fully capable of taking care of herself in more.
"You can't make up your mind which one you care for most, then—is that it?" pursued the same voice. "Well, I'll be a sport. I'll leave you Creighton—if you can keep him."
"I want neither," broke in a voice, which I recognized at once as Adele Laidlaw's.
She spoke with a suppressed emotion which plainly indicated that she did want one of them. Just then the butler entered with our cards. We heard no more. A moment later we were ushered into the next room, which was the library.
Mrs. Barry was a trim, well-groomed woman, whose age was deceptive. I felt that no matter what one might think of Miss Laidlaw, here was a woman whose very looks seemed to warn one to be on his guard.
Adele was flushed and excited, though she was making a desperate effort to act as though nothing had happened.
"My friend, Professor Kennedy, and Mr. Jameson," she said.
Mrs. Barry was, in addition to her other accomplishments, a good actress.
"I've heard a great deal about you, Professor," she said, extending her hand but not taking her eyes off Craig's face.
Kennedy met her gaze directly. What did she mean? Had she accepted Miss Laidlaw's invitation to call in order to look us over, knowing that we had come to do the same?
"Mr. Creighton tells me that you have been to see his new motor," she ventured.
She seemed to enjoy making the remark for the specific purpose of rousing Miss Laidlaw. It succeeded amply. The implication that Creighton took her into his confidence was sufficient to cause Adele Laidlaw to shoot an angry glance at her. Mrs. Barry had no objection to sticking a knife in and turning it around.
"Of course I don't know as much about such things as Miss Laidlaw," she purred, "but Mr. Tresham tells me that there may be some trouble with the Patent Office about allowing the patent. From all I have heard, there's a fortune in that motor for some one. Wonderful, isn't it?"
Even the mention of Tresham's name in the studied familiarity of her tone seemed to increase the scarcely latent hostility between the two women. Kennedy, so far, had said nothing.
"It appears to be wonderful," was all he now guardedly remarked.
Mrs. Barry eyed him sharply, and Miss Laidlaw appeared to be ill at ease. Evidently she wanted to believe in Creighton and his motor, yet her natural caution forbade her. The entrance of Kennedy into the case seemed to have proved a disturbing factor between the two women.
We chatted for a few minutes, Kennedy deftly refusing to commit himself on anything, Mrs. Barry seeking to lead him into expressing some opinion, and endeavoring to conceal her exasperation as he avoided doing so. At last, Kennedy glanced at his watch, which reminded him of a mythical appointment.
"I'm very glad to have met you," he bowed to Mrs. Barry, as she, too, rose to go, while he preserved the fiction of merely having dropped in to see Miss Laidlaw. He turned to her. "I should be delighted to have both you and Mr. Tresham drop in at my laboratory sometime, Miss Laidlaw."
Miss Laidlaw caught his eye and read in it that this was his way, under the circumstances, of asking her to keep in touch with him.
"I shall do so," she promised.
We parted from Mrs. Barry at the door of her taxi-cab.
"A very baffling woman," I remarked, a moment later. "Do you suppose she is as intimate with Creighton as she implies?"
Kennedy shook his head.
"It isn't that that interests me most, just now," he replied. "What I can't figure out is Adele Laidlaw's attitude toward both Creighton and Tresham. She seems to resent Mrs. Barry's intimacy with either."
"Yes," I agreed. "Sometimes I have thought she really cared for both—at least that she was unable to make up her mind which she cared for most. Offhand, I should have thought that she was the sort who wouldn't think a man worth caring much for."
Kennedy shook his head.
"Given a woman, Walter," he said thoughtfully, "whose own and ancestral training has been a course of suppression, where she has been taught and drilled that exhibitions of emotion and passion are disgraceful, as I suspect Miss Laidlaw's parents have believed, and you have a woman whose primitive instincts have been stored and strengthened. The instincts are there, nevertheless, far back in the subconscious mind. I don't think Adele Laidlaw knows it herself, but there is something about both those men which fascinates her, and she can't make up her mind which fascinates her the more."
"But Mrs. Barry," I remarked; "surely she must know."
"I think she does," he returned. "I think she knows more than we suspect."
I looked at him quickly, not quite making out the significance of the remark, but he said no more. For the present, at least, he left Adele Laidlaw quite as much an enigma as ever.
"I wish that you would make inquiries regarding Mrs. Barry," he said finally, as we reached the subway. "I'm going down again to the little room we hired and watch. You'll find me at the laboratory later."

I TRIED my best, but there was very little that I could find out about Mrs. Barry. No one seemed to know where she came from, and even "Mr. Barry" seemed shrouded in obscurity. I was convinced that she was an adventuress.
One thing, however, I did unearth. She had called on Tresham at his office a number of times, usually late in the afternoon, and he had taken her to dinner and to the theater. Apparently he knew her a great deal better than he had been willing to admit to us. I was not surprised, for, like a good many men of his class, Tresham was better known in the white-light district than one might suspect. Mrs. Barry had all the marks of being good company on such an excursion.
On the way up-town I stopped off in the neighborhood of Longacre Square, in the hope of picking up some more gossip at one or another of the clubs. Tresham was a member of several, though, as near as I could find out, used them more for business than for social reasons. On Broadway it was different, however. There he was known as a liberal spender and lover of night life. Like many others, he now and then accumulated quite large bills. I wondered whether Mrs. Barry had not found out, and taken advantage of, his weakness.
When I met Kennedy again, later in the evening, at his laboratory, he listened eagerly to what little I had to report.
"Did anything happen down-town?" I asked, when I had finished.
"Nothing much," he returned. "Of course, listening over the geophone, I couldn't watch the bank building, too. There's something very queer about Creighton. I could hear him at work in the room up-stairs until quite late, making a lot of noise. If I don't find out anything more definite soon, I shall have to adopt some other measures."
"You didn't do anything more about that electrolysis clue?" I queried.
"Nothing," he replied briefly, "except that I inquired of the electric-light company and found out that Creighton, or some one in his building, was using a good deal of power."
"That looks bad," I ventured, remembering the claims made for the engine and the comparatively weak batteries that were said to run it.
Kennedy nodded acquiescence but said nothing more. We walked over in silence to our apartment on the Heights, and far into the night Craig sat there, apparently studying out the peculiar features of the case and planning some new angle of approach at it for the next day.
WE were surprised, next day, to receive an early visit from Miss Laidlaw at the laboratory. She drove up before the Chemistry Building, very much excited.
"What do you think?" she exclaimed, bursting in on us. "Mr. Creighton has disappeared!"
"Disappeared!" repeated Kennedy. "How did you find it out?"
"Mr. Tresham just telephoned me from his office," she hurried on. "He was going into the bank building when he saw a wagon drive off from the place next door. He thought it was strange, and instead of going on up to his own office, he walked into Creighton's. When he tried to get in, the place was locked. There's a sign on it, too. 'For Rent,' he says."
"That's strange," considered Kennedy. "I suppose he didn't notice what kind of wagon it was?"
"Yes; he said it looked like a junk-wagon—full of stuff."
I looked from Miss Laidlaw to Kennedy. Plainly our entrance into the case had been the signal for the flitting of Creighton.
"You know Mrs. Barry's number?" he asked, reaching for the telephone.
"Yes; it's the Prince Edward Hotel."
He called up; but the conversation was over in a moment.
"She didn't return to the hotel last night," he announced, as he hung up the receiver.
"She's in this thing, too!" exclaimed Adele Laidlaw. "Can you go down with me now and meet Mr. Tresham? I promised I would."
Though she repressed her feelings, as usual, I could see that Adele Laidlaw was furious. Was it because Creighton had gone off with her money, or was it pique because
Mrs. Barry had, perhaps, won him? At any rate, some one was going to feel the fury of her scorn.
We motored down quickly in Miss Laidlaw's car and met Tresham, who was waiting in front of the bank building.
"It just happened that I came down early this morning," he explained, "or I shouldn't have noticed anything out of the way. The junk-wagon was just driving away as I came up. It seemed to be in such a hurry that it attracted my attention."
It was the first time we had seen Tresham and Miss Laidlaw together, and I was interested to see how they would act. There was no mistaking his attitude toward her, and Adele was much more cordial to him than I had expected.
"While I was waiting, I got a key from the agent," he explained. "But I didn't want to go in until you came."
Tresham opened the door and led the way up-stairs. As we entered Creighton's shop, everything seemed to be in the greatest disorder. Prints and books were scattered about; the tools were lying wherever they happened to have been left; all the models were smashed or missing, and a heap of papers in the fireplace showed where many plans, letters, and other documents had been burned.
We hurried into the big room. Sure enough, the demon motor itself was gone! Creighton had unbolted it from the floor, and some holes in the boards had been plugged up. The room below was still locked, and the windows were covered with opaque paper on the inside.
"What do you suppose he has done with the motor?" asked Adele.
"The only clue is a junk dealer whom we don't know," I replied, as Kennedy said nothing.
We looked about the place thoroughly, but could find nothing else. Creighton seemed to have made a clean getaway in the early hours.
"I wish I could stay and help you," remarked Tresham, at length, "but I must be in court at ten. If there's anything I can do, though, call on me."
"I'm going to find that engine if I have to visit every junk dealer in New York," declared Miss Laidlaw, soon after Tresham left.
"That's about all we can do yet, I guess," remarked Kennedy, evidently not much worried about the disappearance of the inventor.

TOGETHER we three closed up the workshop and started out with a list from a trade publication, giving all those who dealt in scrap iron and old metal. In fact, we spent most of the day going from one to another of the junk shops. I never knew that there were so many dealers in waste. They seemed to be all over the city and in nearly every section. It was a tremendous job, but we mapped it out so that we worked our way from one section to another.
We had got as far as the Harlem River when we entered one place and looked about while we waited for some one in charge to appear. I heard a low exclamation from Kennedy, and turned to look in the direction he indicated. There, in a wagon from which the horse had been unhitched, was the heavy base of the engine into which so many dollars had been turned—sold as so much scrap!
Kennedy examined it quickly, while I questioned a man who appeared from behind a shed in the rear. It was useless. He could give no clue that we already could not guess. He had just bought it from a man who seemed anxious to get rid of it. His description of the man tallied with Creighton. But that was all. It gave us no chance to trace him.
"Look!" exclaimed Kennedy eagerly, bending closer over the motor. "This is one of the neatest perpetual-motion frauds I ever heard of."
He had turned the heavy base of the motor upward. One glance left me with little wonder why Creighton had so carefully bolted the machine to the floor. In the base were two rectangular apertures to allow a belt to run over a concealed pulley on the main shaft of the machine in the case. Evidently, when the circuit from the Daniell cells was closed, the pulley, somehow, was thrown into gear. It was loose, and the machine began to revolve slowly at first, then faster, and with great show of power. The pounding, as Kennedy had surmised, was due to the fly-wheel not being well balanced.
"Well," I remarked, "now that we have found it, I don't see that it does us much good."
"Only that we understand it," returned Craig. "I left that geophone down there in the room which I hired next door. I think, if Miss Laid law will take us down there, I'd like to get it."
He spoke with a sort of easy confidence which I knew was hard to assume in the face of what looked like defeat. Had Craig deliberately let Creighton have a chance to get away, in order that he might convict himself?
In silence, with Miss Laidlaw at the wheel, we went down-town again to the room which Craig had hired next to Creighton's workshop. As we approached it, he leaned over to Miss Laidlaw.
"Stop around the corner," he said. "Let's go in quietly."
We entered our bare little room, and Kennedy set to work as though to detach the geophone, while I explained it to our client.
"What's the matter?" she interrupted in the middle of my explanation, indicating Kennedy.
He had paused and had placed the receivers to his ears. By his expression I knew that the instrument was registering something.
"Some one is in the lower room of the shop next door," he answered, facing us quickly. "If we hurry, we'll have him cornered."
Miss Laidlaw and I went out and around in front, while Craig dashed through a back door to cut off retreat that way.
"What's that? Hurry!" exclaimed Miss Laidlaw.
Plainly there was a muffled scream of a woman as we entered the street-door. I hurried forward. It was the work of only a few seconds to batter down the locked door in the room under Creighton's old workshop, and as the door gave way, I heard the sound of shattered glass from the rear which told that Kennedy had heard the scream, too, and had gained an entrance.
Inside, I could make out in the half-light a man and a woman. The woman was running toward me, as if for help.
"Mrs. Barry!" gasped Adele Laidlaw.
"He got me here—to kill me!" she cried hysterically. "I am the only one who knows the truth—it was the last day—to-night he would have had the money—and I would have been out of the way. But I'll expose him—I'll ruin him. See—he came in from the roof—"
A blinding flash of light greeted us, followed by a scream from Adele LaidlawA blinding flash of light greeted us, followed by a scream from Adele Laidlaw, as she ran past me and dropped on her knees beside a body that had fallen with a thud, in the flame before a yawning hole in the side wall. Mrs. Barry ran past me, back again, at almost the same moment. It was a strange sight—these two women glaring at each other over the prostrate figure of the man.
"Here's the real demon engine," panted Craig, coming up from the back and pointing to an electric motor as well as other apparatus consisting of several series of coils. "The perpetual-motion machine was just a fake. It was merely a cover to an attempt to break into the bank vaults by electrolysis of the steel and concrete. Creighton was a dummy, a fiction—to take the blame and disappear when the robbery was discovered."
"Creighton," I repeated, looking at the man on the floor, "a dummy?"
"Oh—he's dead!" wailed Adele Laidlaw. "He's dead!"
"Electrocuted by his own machine rather than face disgrace and disbarment," cut in Craig. "No wonder she was in doubt which of the two men fascinated her the more."
I moved forward and bent over the contorted form of the lawyer, Tresham, who was wearing the whiskers and iron-gray wig of his alter ego, Creighton.