ALL things considering, I scarcely think that my uncle acted in strict accordance with his religious principles. As a man,—as an injured husband, doubtless, he had—broadly speaking—some excuse for his conduct; but seeing that he was a clergyman, and Rector of Polwheal, Cornwall, he should have forgiven his enemies, and not have discounted his chances of salvation by plotting crime on—as one may say—his deathbed. But the Tregarthens were never famous for meekness of spirit; and after all, he gave the guilty pair at least one chance of escape,—which they did not take. Had they done so, this story would not have been written, nor would I have been so well-to-do as I am.
“They” were his divorced wife Lillian, and Jack Westleigh, the man who had brought about the intervention of the law. I cannot hold Uncle Tregarthen entirely blameless in the matter: for he should have known better than to have married, at sixty years of age, a girl whom he knew to be in love with her cousin. If Westleigh had not been poor, Squire Lawton would not have objected to the match: but a briefless barrister and a pauper spinster?—the idea was madness. Lawton only acted within his fatherly rights, and wisely, when he forbade the cousins to see, or even to think of each other.
These prohibitions, however, were of no avail, for Westleigh, in defiance of paternal wrath, took up his quarters in the village and gained occasional glimpses of Lillian. They corresponded also by letter, making use of an aged oak on the borders of Lawton Park as an intermedium of communication. Into a hole in the trunk—a disused tit’s nest—Westleigh would slip a note, and next day return for the answer which invariably awaited him in this strange post-office. Occasional glimpses, still more occasional conversations, and continual letters went on for six months between this Juliet and her Romeo; until the Squire, discovering Love’s roguery, ended the romance by marrying Lillian to Mark Tregarthen, rector and eccentric.
The harsh-featured and whimsical old man was not attractive to the nineteen-year-old girl, and Lillian, although she did not dare to disobey her father, bitterly resented the match. Her married life was unhappy and short; for, unable to agree with her aged husband, impatient of his eccentric habits and domineering ways, she fled to London, and there sought the protection of her lover. Uncle Tregarthen obtained a divorce; after which he refused to mention the name of his disgraced wife, but retiring into his misanthropic self, he became daily more odd in his conduct. These things happened ten years before I became personally acquainted with Uncle Tregarthen, so I repeat them from hearsay. In the sequel I took an active part, as will be seen hereafter.
Uncle Tregarthen was my mother’s brother, but she had long since ceased to see, or even to correspond with him. This was less her fault than his, for he designedly cut himself off from the family, leading a misanthropic and solitary life among his wild parishioners. These were mostly fishermen and miners, to the saving of whose souls Uncle Tregarthen paid less attention than to his hobby for collecting diamonds. He lived in a dilapidated rectory; he scrimped and screwed his housekeeper and himself in the matter of food and creature comforts; in all ways he behaved in a most miserly fashion, and devoted the money thus saved to the purchase of gems. His private income, his stipend, his savings in the matter of household and other expenses, were used solely for this purpose, and Polwheal Rectory was looked on as the Golconda of Cornwall.
Why my uncle should have developed so expensive and useless a hobby I could never understand. No one, save himself, saw his diamonds, which were locked up in an iron safe let into the wall of his study: he did not even adorn his wife with them during the short period of her married life. So long as they were in his safe, he was satisfied; and for forty years he added to his collection, until the value of the gems amounted to a fabulous sum—I am afraid to say how much. The rough fishers, and still rougher miners, knew of his wealth, but none attempted to steal the jewels. They were too attached to their eccentric parson to think of doing so; therefore Mark Tregarthen’s riches were as safe in that house on the lonely Cornish coast as they would have been in the Bank of England.
I regret to say that my father—a thriftless man of letters—was indifferently well off, and when he died left my mother almost penniless, to bring me up as best she could. In this strait she applied to her husband’s well-to-do relatives for assistance, and received monies from all save Uncle Tregarthen. He did not even trouble to acknowledge the letter, much to the anger of my mother.
“All the same, he may remember us yet,” she said, after many fruitless applications, extending over several years. “I am his only sister, and you, Francis, his only nephew; he must leave his money to one or the other of us.”
“Unless he marries himself,” I suggested.
“Mark will never marry,” replied my mother convincedly; “he is a confirmed bachelor.”
Subsequent events proved her to be wrong, for shortly we received the news of the marriage to Lillian Lawton, which dashed our hopes to the ground. A year afterwards came the intelligence of his divorce, which raised them again. Five years later a letter from the eccentric himself came to hand.
“I have been informed,” began the letter abruptly, “that your son Francis is now twenty years of age. If he is not a fool—which he must be if he takes after his father—I should like to see him. Send him to me at once; it will be the better for him and for you.—Your brother, Mark.”
In response to this amiable invitation I obtained a month’s holiday from the office wherein I was then employed, and repaired to Polwheal, where I presented myself before my eccentric relative. I found him a powerful-framed, grizzled man, moody and suspicious: he beheld in me an etiolated youth with pale cheeks and round shoulders, both induced by desk work. Neither of us approved of the other’s looks.
“You miserable whelp,” said grim Uncle Tregarthen, “you need Cornish air and out door life to change you from tadpole to man. Write and resign your appointment in your London den.”
“But my mother, sir: she depends upon—”
“I’ll see to your mother,” he retorted shortly; “you stay here!”
I hesitated to accept this offer without confirmation, whereat, in a breath, the dour creature blamed me for my distrust, and praised me for my caution. Afterwards he instructed his lawyers to pay my mother fifty pounds quarterly, conditionally that she never sought Polwheal Rectory, wherein I was henceforth to take up my abode. With an eye to future favours, we accepted these somewhat harsh terms, and for three years I dwelt with Uncle Tregarthen, a kind of prisoner on parole. The old man was not unkind to me, but neglectful and uncompanionable. He gave me no pocket-money, he rarely permitted me to travel beyond the confines of the parish, and scrimped me, along with his other dependents, in the matter of food and light.
Shooting was my great resource, and many a day did I, spend on the moors, solitary but happy. My skill with the gun kept the larder supplied at the mere cost of powder and shot; therefore the Rector rather approved of, than grudged my sport. The out-door life developed my frame, the scanty fare kept me in excellent health, and in a few years I became an uncommonly powerful man. As will afterwards be seen, I owed my life to this rigorous training.
What puzzled me during my sojourn at Polwheal were the singular habits of my uncle. Sometimes he went to London for the purpose of buying diamonds, at others he attended to his parishioners; but for the most part he would disappear for hours, and return covered with grime, and exhausted with toil. Where he went, what he did, I could never discover; nor did I seek to force his secret, until one day, as I returned across the moors, I fell in with him unexpectedly.
The place was on the verge of the sea-shore, and everywhere the ground gaped with the shafts of disused mines. Out of one of these Uncle Tregarthen suddenly appeared, and I had just time to slip behind a giant stone before he passed by me groaning heavily. In the fast-falling night it was difficult to see plainly, but I noted his pale face, his dragging gait, and I heard the laboured breath which told of severe toil. My curiosity to know the meaning of these things got the better of my prudence; and when the old man vanished, I slipped into the mouth of the mine whence he had emerged.
Within all was thick gloom, but I was provided against that emergency. For the purpose of exploring tin mines, I always carried matches and candles; so before diving into the shaft I lighted up, and stuck my taper, miner-fashion, in my cap, with a lump of clay. Forward I went, doubled up, for the roof was low, and advanced cautiously lest I should fall into some snare. It was just as well I did so, for the gallery ended in a yawning chasm, which led to the lower workings of the mine. Down this hung a stout rope, attached to a massive rock at the lips of the well; and I would have swung myself down, but that my candle fell from my cap. I had no other light, so for the moment I was reluctantly compelled to abandon the exploration.
On my return home bad news awaited me. Uncle Tregarthen had arrived an hour previously, had called for brandy, and while lifting the glass to his lips he had fallen dead. As I afterwards learned from the doctor, the old man died of aneurism of the heart, induced by the overtaxing of his strength. I had no doubt but what the Rector had worked hard at some manual labour while in the depths of that mine, but his reasons for so doing I could not understand. Sooner than I expected these came to light, and singular enough they were.
At once I communicated with my mother, who came to Polwheal in time to see the last of her brother, before he was buried. After the funeral, the will was read, and then we received an unpleasant surprise. I had always looked on myself as the heir to the Rector’s jewels, but to my dismay the diamonds were left to the divorced wife Lillian and her lover: failing their acceptance of the same the gems were to become my property.
“As if they would refuse,” lamented my mother. “There must be fifty thousand pounds’ worth, Francis; and to leave them to that wicked woman! Can’t we upset the will? I’m sure your uncle was mad.”
“I don’t think so, mother: he was eccentric, but not mad. The will is likely to stand the test of the law, so the only thing for us to do is to communicate with Mr. and Mrs. Westleigh.”
“I have already done so,” said the lawyer; “they will be here this week.”
“Why were they not present at the reading of the will?” I asked sharply.
“Because they were abroad, and could not come earlier. I am sorry for you, Mr. Carson, but you are young, and will soon make your way in the world.”
“Cold comfort that,” I rejoined bitterly. “Uncle Tregarthen took me out of a situation, and now turns me loose to live as best I can after five years of idleness. I do not think I have been treated fairly.”
“It is scandalous,” cried my mother.
“Quite so! quite so!” said the lawyer. “But the will is all right. I don’t deny the leaving of the property to the divorced wife is hard, but Mr. Tregarthen was always eccentric.”
“By the way, where are the jewels?” I asked, out of mere curiosity.
“In the safe, I suppose,” said the solicitor, selecting a key. “I looked in there the other day, and could not find them; but as a matter of fact my examination was cursory—very cursory indeed. We will search for them now.”
Surprise number one was the provisions of the will, surprise number two, the searching of the safe. It was empty: no diamonds were therein concealed, and the three of us stood looking at one another in dismay. Then Mr. Pryce, the lawyer, suggested that the jewels might be concealed in some other part of the house, so we made a close search. It was useless, for not a single gem could we discover. The Rector had hidden his diamonds to some purpose, for no one knew their whereabouts save himself—and he was dead.
“Dear! dear!” murmured Mr. Pryce, “this is most extraordinary. You have no idea where they can be, Mr. Carson?”
“Not the slightest. The only key to that safe was on the Rector’s watch-chain all the time I have been here. I have never seen the diamonds. Uncle Tregarthen did not honour me with his confidence so far.”
I thought Pryce eyed me somewhat suspiciously, as though he thought I had stolen the jewels. My mother saw his looks, and gave him a piece of her mind which made him beat a hasty retreat. When he was gone, she turned to me—
“Francis! you have never seen the diamonds?”
“No, mother.”
“You have no idea where they can be?”
“No, mother.”
We said no more, for the situation, and the suspicions of Pryce, disturbed us greatly, Mr. and Mrs. Westleigh, the legatees under the will, were to arrive on the morrow—but where was the legacy?
BUT for the loss of the diamonds my mother and I would have left the Rectory before the arrival of the Westleighs. I had no particular wish to meet my divorced aunt, and my mother was of that aggressively virtuous matron type which dreads contact with the fallen. Nevertheless we remained, as departure might complicate matters, and I had my character to defend. Not only Pryce had conceived a suspicion, but Mrs. Lowdy, the half-starved housekeeper, imbibed his ideas, and looked askance at me. I never felt so uncomfortable as at that time. It was bad enough to be thrown penniless on the world, through the whims of an old man; but it was worse to be suspected of thieving the property which morally, if not legally, I looked on as mine. There was something ironical about such circumstances.
Nor was my discomfort lessened by the arrival of the Westleighs. He was a fresh-coloured, insolent creature, loud-voiced and coarse-minded; she a pretty woman who adored this male brute, and was a slave in consequence. That he loved her in an animal sort of way I do not deny, but his selfish egotism would not permit her to be happy. To my mind the second marriage of Lillian Lawton was even more unfortunate than the first.
My mother was kind but cold to the wife; a compliment returned by Westleigh, who was insolent and overbearing to me. For obvious reasons I kept my temper, although he tried it sorely by pointed allusions to the loss of the diamonds. With characteristic meddlesomeness Pryce had driven to the nearest railway station, and had informed Westleigh of the loss, and of his doubts, so that when the man arrived he was quite prepared to accuse me of the theft without a shadow of foundation.
“A strange business this, Mr. Carson,” he said, when we were alone after dinner.
“You mean about the diamonds?”
“Yes, Where are they?”
“I am afraid I cannot tell you, Mr. Westleigh. All the time I have lived with my uncle, I have never even seen the jewels. I understood that he kept them in his study safe—but they are not there now.”
“Do you know their value?”
“I have not the least idea.”
Westleigh looked at me with a sneer.
“Yet you no doubt expected to be your uncle’s heir.”
“Certainly! The jewels ought to have been left to me. Your wife—excuse me, Mr. Westleigh, for speaking so plainly—but your wife forfeited her claim to my uncle’s property by her behaviour.”
“H’m! No doubt you wish to make her suffer for that slip.”
“What do you mean, sir?”
I asked the question indignantly, for the man’s insolence stung me cruelly. He, like myself, was on his feet, and leaning one hand on the table, he bent towards me with a frown.
“I mean, Mr. Carson, that you know more about these jewels than you choose to tell. Naturally you are aggrieved at being left out of the will, and I dare swear you have taken steps to remove those diamonds to a safe hiding-place.”
It was fortunate that Mrs. Lowdy entered the room at that moment, and compelled me to restrain myself, else I should have sprang on the insolent brute, who so coldly accused me of theft. As it was, I stood silently controlling my passion, while Westleigh received a letter from the housekeeper.
“My late master asked me to give you this on your arrival, Mr. Westleigh,” said Mrs. Lowdy, with a curtsey, “and having placed it in your hands, sir, I have discharged my duty.”
She then left the room, and after a doubtful glance at me, Westleigh tore open the envelope. Wondering what Uncle Tregarthen could have to say to the man who had wrecked his domestic happiness, I waited. Westleigh read the note—it was not very long—and then turned towards me with a studied courtesy which was even more objectionable than his insolence.
“I ask your pardon for my late speech, Mr. Carson,” he said, in a voice charged with excitement, “for I have suspected you wrongly. I know now where the Tregarthen diamonds are hidden.”
“Indeed! Does that letter—”
Before I could finish my remark he placed the note in my hands, and in the crabbed Greek handwriting of my late uncle, I read as follows—“The diamonds are hidden for safety in the Trevethy Mine. Enter the shaft with the red star, follow the rope, and it will guide you to the hiding-place. Take spade and pickaxe, for the place is hermetically sealed. One thing only I ask of you. When you seek the jewels, take with you my late wife Lillian. Both of you have wronged me deeply, and you owe it to me to obey my last request. Seek the jewels together, or leave them to my nephew, Francis Carson.”
There was no signature to this extraordinary letter, and I returned it to Westleigh with a sudden enlightenment of the mind. This then was the reason of Uncle Tregarthen’s long absences—of his toil and grimy appearance—the reason of his emergence from the shaft of the Trevethy Mine. The diamonds were concealed therein. I wondered that I had not guessed as much, when they were missing from the house.
“I expect he was afraid of being robbed,” said Westleigh, with a peculiar glance at me, “and so concealed the jewels in that mine. Well, we will seek them to-morrow—will you come also, Mr. Carson?”
“Certainly, if you wish it,” said I quietly; “but the letter stipulates that your wife should go with you.”
“I’ll see her about it at once,” he replied resolutely. “No doubt she will make some objection; but I am not going to lose a fortune simply because she is afraid of descending a tin mine.”
As Westleigh anticipated, his wife was by no means willing to descend into the depths of the Trevethy Mine. She appeared apprehensive lest the letter of the dead man should conceal some sinister design; and indeed I had my doubts on the matter also. A dour creature like Uncle Tregarthen was not likely to forgive an injury: and his ostentatious pardon of the pair who had wronged him so deeply seemed ironical. Mrs. Westleigh thought so too.
“I am afraid, Jack! I am terribly afraid,” she cried, clinging to his arm, when he broached the subject, “evil will come of this. Let us give up the diamonds to the nephew, and go away.”
“You must take me for a fool, Lillian,” replied her husband crossly. “Give up fifty or sixty thousand pounds? I’ll do no such thing. We will go down this mine tomorrow.”
“No! No! I shall not!”
“You shall! You must! Don’t be foolish: there can be no possible danger.”
Mrs. Westleigh thought differently and continued to object; but during the night the stronger will dominated the weaker, and next morning she professed her willingness to carry out the dead man’s instructions. In the meantime Westleigh had sent for Pryce, and when he arrived showed him the letter.
“Most extraordinary,” said the lawyer, when he had mastered its contents. “I was always under the impression that my late client kept the jewels in his safe. That was evidently a blind, and he constructed a secret place in the Trevethy Mine. Mr. Carson,” he added, turning to me, “I beg to apologize for my unjust suspicions. I see now that you are innocent.”
“I owe you no thanks for that, Mr. Pryce,” said I bitterly. “The evidence of this letter is too strong for you to disbelieve; but you might have given me the benefit of the doubt.”
These three people were all hostile to me, and but for my curiosity concerning the hiding-place of the diamonds, I should have left Polwheal Rectory that day with my mother. As it was I persuaded her—sorely against her will—to stay, and at twelve o’clock we set out for the Trevethy Mine to seek the jewels. As I passed out of the door, Mrs. Lowdy plucked me by the sleeve.
“I ask your pardon, sir,” she whispered. “I suspected you wrongly; but you will be rewarded for your trouble, Mr. Carson.”
“What do you mean, Mrs. Lowdy?”
She screwed up her mouth and nodded significantly. “When they find the diamonds, you come back to me, and I’ll give you a message from the master.”
Before I could ask for an explanation, she vanished into the house and shut the door, while I ran on to join the party, now some distance ahead. I began to be suspicious of the motives of my dead uncle. He had left a letter for Westleigh, and a message for me; and I suspected that blindly we were carrying out some design dangerous to some, if not to all of us. So strongly was this borne on us that I determined to dissuade Westleigh from descending the shaft.
There was no difficulty in finding the main entrance to the Trevethy Mine. It was the same whence I had seen the old man emerge on the day of his death. And to distinguish it from the other gaping mouths a splotch of red paint was rubbed on the grey stone face. Under the bright blue sky, on the verge of the rugged shore, we stood, a party of five, looking at the yawning mine, down which we had to descend to recover the jewels. Westleigh, as instructed by the letter, had brought a pickaxe and shovel with him, and with these over his shoulder he prepared to step into the mouth. Lillian with a sudden access of terror drew back, and flung herself into the arms of my mother.
“I can’t, Jack! I daren’t,” she wailed fearfully; “there is danger. I am sure there is danger.”
“Rot!” cried Westleigh, seizing her roughly by the hand. “You must come. I don’t wish to lose the jewels for your scruples. Come on!”
“I think Mrs. Westleigh is right,” I interposed. “I feel sure that Uncle Tregarthen has some sinister design in this.”
“Bah!” sneered Westleigh. “You want the jewels for yourself.”
Pryce took a pinch of snuff, and looked doubtfully at me.
“It might be as you say, Mr. Carson,” he remarked. “I never yet knew your uncle to forgive his enemies.”
“Don’t go; don’t go,” said my mother, drawing back Lillian; “let the diamonds be.”
“You want them for your son,” scoffed Westleigh; “but they are mine by right, and I mean to have them. Come, Lillian.”
She shuddered, and gave one despairing glance around at sky, sun, and sea, then, dominated by her husband’s will, she followed him into the tunnel, leaving the three of us looking at one another.
“You are afraid to go, I see,” said Pryce, with a jeering look at me.
“No!” I answered, “I intend to see this out. I suspect something is wrong, but if Westleigh does not keep his eyes open I shall.”
Silencing my mother’s objections with a kiss, I slipped into the gallery after Jack Westleigh and his wife, and in a few minutes I found myself standing with them on the lips of the hole which led into the bowels of the mine. The three of us were now fully committed to the adventure. Would that we had foreseen the end, and had retired while there was yet time!
THE situation was enough to try the nerves of a stronger woman than Mrs. Westleigh, and she leaned against the sides of the tunnel faint with terror. Seeing this, her husband administered a sup of brandy from his travelling flask, and so braced her up for the adventure. She became as anxious as he to find the jewels, and professed her willingness to descend into the shaft, whence she had shrunk some minutes before. Taking advantage of this sudden access of courage Westleigh made ready for the descent.
“It will be awkward for you to scramble down by this rope,” he said, kneeling on the edge of the shaft. “Hullo! here’s a rope-ladder; that’s capital. Lillian, I shall go down first, you follow me, and then if Mr. Carson chooses to come he can do so.”
“Mr. Carson does choose to come,” I said sharply; “but how are you going to lower this pickaxe and spade?”
“By this rope, of course,” replied Westleigh, drawing up the cord which swung by the rope-ladder. “See, I’ll tie them to the end and lower them so. The shaft is not so deep as I thought.”
We heard the clink of the iron as axe and spade clashed at the bottom of the shaft. Afterwards, with a reassuring word to his wife, Westleigh cautiously descended the rope-ladder, and bending over the yawning mouth I could see the candle fastened in his cap, twinkling starlike in the thick gloom. After the elapse of some minutes, he apparently reached the ground, for we heard him shout faintly, and felt the guiding-rope violently shaken.
“Now, Mrs. Westleigh, it is your turn,” said I; and as she started nervously back I added encouragingly, “Do not be afraid, I will tie the end of this rope to your waist, and you will thus be supported while descending the ladder.”
With an effort she consented, and pulling the rope up I bound the end round her waist. Then she swung herself fearfully on to the shaking ladder, and I let the cord pay out slowly through my hands as she clambered down. In a few minutes she accomplished the descent also, and like glow-worms the candlelights glimmered at the bottom of the shaft. Without hesitation I gripped the rope, and making no use of the ladder, I precipitated myself into the abyss. Accustomed as I was to cliff climbing, it was easy work for me to descend, and shortly I found myself standing beside the pale wife and the anxious husband in the bowels of the earth.
By this time the effect of the spirit had died out in Mrs. Westleigh, and in the wavering light of the candles her face looked curiously pale. Notwithstanding her awe of Westleigh, I believe she would have fled, but that it was now too late to retreat. Her husband, with flushed face and bright eyes, paid little attention to her agitation, but he groped about for the rope, which, as mentioned in Uncle Tregarthen’s letter, would guide him to the place where the jewels were hidden.
“Here it is,” he cried in an exulting tone, picking it up from the side of the gallery. “Carson, look after my wife and follow me.”
Little as I liked her I was sorry for the poor woman. She gripped my hand with the courage of despair, and we hurried along the gallery after Jack Westleigh. The tunnel proceeded in a horizontal direction for some distance until it stopped short at another chasm, down which depended a rope-ladder. Our descent was accomplished in the same manner as before, and again we walked on. I judged that by this time we were under the sea, so that the adventure was even more perilous than we had deemed it.
“Hark!” I said, pausing a moment with Lillian’s hand in mine, “we are under the ocean. Do you hear the reverberation of the waves?”
We all listened intently, and heard distinctly the rumble of the waters overhead, the grating of the rocks grinding along the bed of the sea, and the drowsy swell of the waves seething on the rugged beach. By the lights of the candles we could see that the rocks within which we were entombed were quite dry, and here and there a glint of light was struck from the veins of ore threading the sides of the tunnel. The air was thick and muggy, so that we could hardly breathe.
“Oh, Jack, I am afraid—I am afraid,” moaned Lillian in wide-eyed terror; “let us go back.”
“What! After coming so far? Not if I know it,” was his response, and he seized his wife as she sank on the rocky floor. “Get up and come along, you fool.”
Passive in his hands from sheer terror, she permitted herself to be led forward, and after five minutes we emerged on to a kind of platform beyond which opened a huge vaulted chamber. The rope descended here, and Westleig looked over to find the expected ladder. There was none “I must scramble down as best I can,” he grumbled slinging axe and spade over his shoulder. “You can wait here, Lillian, with Carson.”
“Shall I help you?” I asked, as he gripped the rope.
“No, thank you,” was his sneering retort, “I would rather find the jewels alone; I don’t trust you, my friend.”
Indignation held me silent, and I busied myself attending to Mrs. Westleigh, while her husband dropped into the darkness. The precipice proved of no great height, for we saw his light suddenly steady as he touched ground ten feet below.
“The rope runs to the right,” he called up; and then we saw the glimmer of his candle moving athwart the gloom. A shout of joy announced that he had reached the end of his journey, and had found the treasure place. “The old man has bricked up the hole,” he shouted, “it’s about four feet square; but I’ll soon have this wall down. It runs all along the side of the vault.”
A moment afterwards the blows of the pickaxe echoed in the vault, and Lillian on her hands and knees peered into the gloom, watching the dancing light, as her husband moved his head with every stroke. For a few minutes he plied the pickaxe; then rose a cry of fear, the light went out, and we heard the roar of many waters. Lillian shrieked aloud.
“Help—help—Carson—Lillian!” cried Westleigh in muffled tones. “I have let in the sea. I have—”
The waters broke down the brickwork which ran along the side of the vault, and surged tempestuously into the hollow. They gripped Westleigh in their strength and dashed him against the rocky sides. He gave one shriek, echoed by Lillian, and then all was still save the roaring of the rapidly-rising waters.
“Mrs. Westleigh, let me save you,” I cried, seizing her in my arms.
“No! No! My husband! Ah!” she screamed, as a dark body borne on the turbid waters swept under the feeble glimmer of our candles. “Jack! Jack!”
Before I could tighten my grip on her, before I could guess her purpose, she tore herself from my arms, and hurled herself into the black pool, now streaked and marbled with white foam. I heard her cry as she was swept into the darkness, and I staggered back under the force of the incoming flood, which now was up to my knees. I could save neither him nor her; I was in danger of losing my own life, and in an agony of fear I turned and raced for safety along the lower gallery. Even in that terrible moment I recognized the fearful vengeance which had been meted out by Mark Tregarthen to the guilty pair.
Quick as I was in gaining the first shaft which led to the higher levels, the waters were quicker still, and as I rapidly clambered up the rope-ladder, the salt flood growled and bubbled at my heels. It forced its way up the narrow shaft at tremendous speed, and the floor of the second gallery was already ankle-deep before I had covered half the distance. At the last shaft the turbulence of the flood somewhat abated, therefore I judged that I was on a level with the ocean; but as I scrambled up the second ladder the waters still continued to swell, though slowly. Halfway up they stopped, and rolled hoarsely from side to side. With a prayer of thanksgiving for my escape I flung myself exhausted on the floor of the tunnel which led to the open air. Of the three of us I alone had saved my life.
The reason for my uncle’s strange will, and stranger letter, can now easily be guessed. He had forgiven neither his wife nor Westleigh, but by appealing to their greed he had brought about the death of both. For years he must have toiled constructing that brickwork which alone kept out the waters of the sea. How he managed to accomplish so great a task unaided I cannot say; by what means he pierced the ocean floor so that the waters should pour into the mine the moment the brickwork was destroyed, it is impossible to guess. But the fact remained that with inconceivable malignancy he had made Westleigh the instrument of his own fate. By tempting him with the promise of the diamonds, he had induced the wretched man to destroy, by his own free will, the only barrier between him and death. I saw now why he wished Westleigh and Lillian to go together to the mine: it was to doom them to the cruel death which I had escaped so narrowly. The Trevethy Mine was filled almost to the mouth with water, and in its grim depths were concealed the corpses of those who had wronged the Rector of Polwheal. I challenge fiction to produce a more gruesome tragedy than that which I have narrated.
On recovering somewhat from my exhaustion, I staggered along the tunnel, and emerged, battered, bruised, and grimy, into the glare of the sunshine. As in a dream I saw my mother and Pryce rise in alarm from the stones whereon they were seated; as in a dream I heard them ask for the Westleighs, and I heard my own voice tell of the terrible catastrophe. Then I faintly saw their faces of horror at the recital, and fell down in a swoon, almost as void of life as those unhappy beings entombed in the watery depths below.
And now comes in the strangest part of this strange story. When I came to my senses I was lying on my bed with my mother anxiously bending over me. With maternal care she held some wine to my lips, and so efficacious was the draught that soon I was able to sit up and converse.
“You have been unconscious for over two hours,” said my mother in response to my inquiries; “we carried you here, and then Pryce with some men went back to see if the Westleighs could be rescued.”
“Impossible, mother! They were both drowned before I escaped from the mine. I should have been drowned also, but that I made use of my speed and my strength. What a terrible vengeance Uncle Tregarthen prepared for those unhappy people.”
“Terrible indeed, Francis; but I always knew that my brother was vindictive, although I did not think he would have sinned so wickedly on his dying bed. Lillian is gone, Westleigh is gone, and the diamonds—”
“They are gone also!”
“I am not so sure of that,” said my mother significantly, producing a letter from her pocket. “Mrs. Lowdy, who has followed Mr. Pryce to the mine, gave me this for you. It is from your uncle.”
I opened the letter and read it aloud without further delay. The contents astonished us both.
“NEPHEW FRANCIS,” began the letter, in my uncle’s well-known handwriting. “When you receive this letter, I hope my guilty wife and her lover will be dead. I have given them one chance of escape:—by appealing to their moral feelings as to whether they deserve my money or not. If they can conquer their greed and refrain from descending into the Trevethy Mine, doubtless they are alive still; if, on the other hand, they have been shameless enough to claim the property of one whom they have wronged cruelly—well, you know what has occurred. For years I have brooded over my vengeance, for years I have toiled to build a slight wall against the sea which threatened to flood the mine. How I discovered the danger, how I accomplished the work, there is no need to say. Sufficient is it for me to declare that my hate gave me strength and ingenuity to prepare this trap. If they have fallen into it I am glad; if they are alive still, God will punish them in His own good time. In any case the diamonds are yours. I did not hide them in the Trevethy Mine—that was but a lure to accomplish my vengeance. No! the jewels, to the amount of eighty thousand pounds, are hidden in the trunk of the oak tree on the borders of the Lawton estate, where my wife was accustomed to meet her lover. Put your hand into the tit’s nest they used as a post-office; there you will find a cord, at the end of which is a leathern bag containing the jewels. If I have accomplished my revenge I feel no sorrow; if they are dead I am glad. I shall welcome them to the next world with joy. They sought wealth—they found death. Bless you, my boy—and curse them.—MARK TREGARTHEN.”
There is no more to be said. As directed by the letter I sought the oak, I found the jewels, and these ultimately realized the sum of close on eighty thousand pounds. The bodies of Lillian and Jack Westleigh were never recovered, as it was found impossible to drain the mine. Thanks to my uncle’s bequest, both my mother and myself live in affluence and ease, but neither of us have ever revisited Polwheal, which to us is fraught with horror. The horrible story of my uncle’s vengeance is still related at winter firesides; and no legend is so popular, or so firmly believed, as that of the Dead Man’s Diamonds.