MEMBERS of a family may be selfishly proud of their individual perfections, yet take a collective pride in some special attribute or possession of their race. The O’Gradys, for instance, flatter themselves on owning a genuine Banshee; the Macsniffs think highly of the hoary tower built by Noah Macsniff to escape a second Flood; and the Fitztudors are proud of their royal descent from a frail ancestress and a dissolute king. Such-like trifles give satisfaction to the most aristocratic families, and raise them (in their own estimation) above the commonalty. These do not recognize Adamic relationship otherwise than that they belong to the human race.
The Dreuxfields, having made money by army contracting during the Peninsular War, cast round for some fetich to boast of, to expatiate on, and to bore their friends with. They had no ancestors worth talking about; their baronial halls were a recent purchase, and the family ghost of the former proprietors, not being a fixture, had passed away with the ancient stock. Ultimately they hit on jewels as the most respectable things to be proud of, and, in pursuance of the idea, they acquired twenty-four diamonds the like of which had never been seen since Aladdin looted the Cave of the Lamp.
These were not all bought at once, or by one person. Such wholesale buying would have reduced the whole affair to the level of a Bond Street purchase. The collecting of these gems took time and money, and (possibly) the loss of immortal souls. For the last fifty years every member of the family who could beg, borrow, buy, or steal a particularly fine diamond, forthwith contributed the same to the Dreuxfield fetich. Each jewel, worth no end of money, had a history, reputable or otherwise, and, finally, four-and-twenty gems of the first water were brought together to constitute the heirloom of the Dreuxfields.
The fetich ever consisted of these twenty-four diamonds, but the stones varied in the setting according to the taste of the Mrs. Dreuxfield then in possession. They glittered a tiara for display at St. James’s, or flamed a jewelled belt for a waist. Sometimes they separated into bracelets of twelve gems each, or again collected into a necklace shooting twenty-four sparks of fire. In this latter form they were now, as the present Mrs. Dreuxfield’s fine neck and shoulders formed an admirable background for the display of their splendour.
Experts valued the necklace at twenty thousand pounds, and it fully justified in worth and appearance the pride of its possessors. All the thieves in London had seen those diamonds going to Court on the fair neck of Mrs. Dreuxfield, and had calculated the chances of getting them into their clutches. They never found an opportunity of stealing them, however, as when not in use they reposed in the strong-room of Dreuxfield Hall, Malvern, the key of which was attached to the Squire’s watch-chain. Yet, notwithstanding the impossibility of a successful raid, one famous cracksman swore loudly that he would yet steal the jewels. So far he had not succeeded. His name was Cracky Bill, of Whitechapel, and he was wanted by the police. Cecil Dreuxfield, who had lately succeeded to the property, was a young man of thirty, whose parents dying within a year of each other had left him and his wife in possession of the Hall and the diamonds. With them lived Cecil’s sister Kate and Mrs. Dreuxfield’s uncle, Josiah Onslow. The young couple were handsome and agreeable, the sister was a pretty girl fond of the Curate, and the uncle a bad-tempered ancient who owned an ivory leg. This latter curiosity deserves special mention.
It is not every man who possesses an artificial limb made of ivory, and the Major (he had retired from service of the H.E.I.C. with that rank) was as proud of it as was Pelops of his ivory shoulder. Not born a Dreuxfield, he took no especial interest in the necklace, and bestowed all superfluous pride on his ivory leg. Onslow had imagination, and should have been a novelist. As it was, he told stories about that leg which outvied the “Arabian Nights.” There were fifty distinct narratives as to how he had lost his limb and gained the artificial understanding. He never repeated himself, and lied like a journalist short of news. The leg was turned like that of a pianoforte, and carved out of all smoothness. If any one asked him if it was vegetable ivory he threw everything handy at the head of the inquirer.
“Vegetable ivory, you qualified fool!” he would roar, “no! genuine ivory—elephants’ tusks, bless me! The Rajah of Dum-Dum gave me the leg for losing my own in killing a heavenly elephant that blessed nearly killed him.”
The adjectives in this speech must be read contrariwise.
Onslow was not a nice man, and no great favourite with the young trio. He drank sherry, which was bad for his liver, and played cards for stakes ruinous to his meagre purse. Only the love Dreuxfield had for his wife prevented him turning her relation out of doors. By dint of much self-control they put up fairly well with his tantrums, and were glad when he visited London (which he did twice or thrice a month) to lose money at his favourite pastime.
No one loved the old reprobate. Not even his servant, whom he bullied unmercifully. Perhaps the present valet had not been long enough in his situation to love the Major, for he was a new importation. Onslow rarely kept his men longer than a month. The incessant exercise of dodging missiles wore them thin. The new valet fared better, as he was deferential, and had been an attendant in a lunatic asylum. Moreover, he took a great interest in the Major’s ivory leg, and, when it was unstrapped at night, he always carried it to his own room to polish up for the morning. These little attentions pleased the crusty old man.
One evening in April the Curate came to dinner. He was a handsome, earnest young fellow, much in love with Kate Dreuxfield. His affection was returned, and it seemed probable that there would be a match. Every one favoured the idea, save Major Onslow, who hated the Curate like poison. All the scandal he could father about the parson he repeated to Cecil, but as he had discounted his veracity by ivory leg stories, this gossip merely provoked distrust. After dinner the Curate followed Kate into the drawing-room, where he made love, with the consent and in the presence of Mrs. Dreuxfield. Cecil, left alone with Onslow, drank his wine, smoked his cigar, and listened to the Major raging. He was particularly offensive this evening, and his speeches need expurgation.
“I hate that sneaking parson,” he began without preamble. Dreuxfield interrupted him smartly.
“You are in the minority then. Jenny, Kate, and myself think no end of him.”
“Particularly Kate,” sneered the Major. “I suppose she will marry the fellow.”
“If by the fellow you mean Clarence Newall, I have no doubt she will,” retorted Cecil, pointedly. “I know of no man to whom I would so willingly give my sister.”
“I thought you didn’t like parsons.”
“Then you thought wrong, sir. I am not aware of having manifested any particular dislike to the Church. Besides, I was at college with Newall, and I know him to be a good, honest fellow.”
“I’ve heard different stories,” said Onslow, enraged by these contradictions; “it is said that Newall was in a fast set.”
“Maybe; but he was not fast himself. You are thinking of his cousin, Clive Newall—the initials are the same, the natures are not.”
“You believe in him, I see,” said the Major, huffily, making for the door, “but, mark my words, he’ll sell you yet. I never knew a parson that didn’t.”
“Newall is quite sound, Major—as sound as that ivory leg you—”
His speech was interrupted by the banging of the door. Onslow did not like his leg being made a jest of, and, moreover, finding he was getting the worst of it, he retired to bed. By no means sorry to see the back of this cantankerous elder, Cecil finished his claret, and went to the drawing-room. Here he found the two ladies and Newall in eager conversation.
“The Major has gone to bed, Jenny,” he said to his wife. “Lost his temper, as usual.”
“What a cross old man he is,” said Mrs. Dreuxfield, shrugging her shoulders. “Cecil dear, I hope he has not vexed you. I really think we ought to take away his ivory leg until he promises to behave better.”
“Never mind, Jenny,” whispered Kate, “he is going to town to-morrow, and will be away some days.”
“You look tired, Newall,” said Dreuxfield, patting his friend on the shoulder.
“I have been busy to-day,” answered the Curate, “and, besides, I’m rather worried over a family matter.”
“That scamp Clive again?” asked Cecil in a low voice.
Newall nodded, and would have continued speaking but that Kate interposed.
“What are you two talking about?” she said; then, without waiting for an answer, added, “Oh, Cecil, I want you to show Mr. Newall the necklace. He has never seen it, and you promised me this morning at breakfast to bring it out.”
“Come to the next Drawing-room, Mr. Newall,” said Mrs. Dreuxfield, amiably, “and you shall see it on my neck.”
“I think he would like a closer inspection,” laughed Cecil. “I’ll fetch it down here.”
“Do,” said Newall, eagerly, “you have no idea how anxious I am to see the Dreuxfield diamonds.”
“What a curious odour,” observed Dreuxfield, sniffing; “you haven’t any drugs in your pockets, have you, Newall?”
“Not that I know of,” replied the Curate, smiling, “but I was taking some medicine to a parishioner to-day, and the cork came out of the bottle. No doubt some of the contents were spilt.”
“Oh, that is it! You ought to be more careful. I declare you scent the room like a—perambulating drug shop. Sweet! heavy! sickly—ah! ah! Chloroform!” finished Cecil, and departed for the strong room.
It seemed to Kate, who was watching his face, that her lover paled a trifle at this last remark. The momentary emotion passed, but she thought it strange. Then they fell to talking of the necklace and its worth.
“I declare,” said Mrs. Dreuxfield, with a pretty shudder “that I am always nervous when going to the Drawing-room. To sit in a carriage with hundreds of curious eyes fastened on those diamonds is enough to shake stronger nerves than mine.”
“I don’t see why you should fear, Jenny. No one can steal that necklace! It is too well guarded.”
“Let us hope no one will attempt so daring a theft. Ah! here comes Dreuxfield with the jewels.”
Cecil placed the morocco box on the table and lifted the lid. In the lamplight a glory streamed from the twenty-four gems. Even the two women, well accustomed to the sight, could not restrain a little cry of delighted surprise. Newall drew a long breath and gazed steadfastly at the glitter before him. The stones, but slightly set and connected, flashed a circle of sunbeams.
“A king’s ransom!” he said, and turned away as if to shut out the too fascinating sight. They amused themselves with the necklace for some time and then closed the box. It was left on the table. Shortly afterwards the ladies retired to bed, and Newall went up to the smoking-room with Dreuxfield. Hardly were they outside the drawing-room door when Cecil uttered an ejaculation of annoyance.
“What a fool I am!” said he, “I quite forgot the necklace. You know where the smoking-room is, Newall. Just go to it while I replace the diamonds in the strong room.”
Newall assented and moved away, while Dreuxfield went back for the necklace. The box was still on the table, and a glance inside assured him that the jewels were safe. Blaming himself for his inconceivable rashness in leaving the treasure even for a moment, he went to the strong-room. It was on the ground-floor, and approached by a long and somewhat dark passage. With the case under his arm Dreuxfield fumbled at the lock of the door, when suddenly an arm was thrown round his neck, choking the cry on his lips. A cloth saturated with chloroform was clapped over his mouth, and he heard the morocco box clatter to the floor as he lost his senses.
Mrs. Dreuxfield in her dressing-room chattered with Kate about the Curate, and playfully bantered her on her chances of becoming a clergyman’s wife. Then Kate retired, and Mrs. Dreuxfield prepared for bed. Somewhat astonished at the unusual absence of her husband, she was about to seek the smoking-room and reprove him when she heard a loud cry. In a few minutes she was down-stairs, and found Newall in the hall bending over the unconscious body of Cecil.
“What is the matter?” she cried, alarmed by this spectacle.
“I don’t know,” gasped Newall, with a remarkably pale face; “he left me to put away the jewels. I waited his return in the smoking-room. He did not appear, and I went in search of him. He was lying unconscious by the strong-room door.”
By the time this breathless explanation came to an end, the whole household thronged the hall. Last of all the Major, followed by his valet Jenkins, stumped down the stairs, loudly excusing himself for so late an arrival.
“Jenkins took my ivory leg to his room to clean,” he explained. “I came down the instant it was strapped on. Now what is all this?”
Explanations were made, a doctor appeared on the scene, and Cecil sat up confusedly to give his version of the episode.
“Chloroform!” exclaimed the doctor.
“The diamonds!” said Dreuxfield. “I have been robbed.”
This explanation did not mend matters. The moment before they had been concerned for the safety of their master, now each and all wondered what was the penalty for robbery. Pale servants looked askance at one another, and the female domestics shrieked themselves into hysterics. Kate kept her head and bore Mrs. Dreuxfield to her room, leaving the men to deal with the matter. Unfortunately, at so late an hour, little could be done, so there was nothing left for it but to wait till dawn opened the telegraph office. Newall, finding himself useless in advising and doing, went home in company with the doctor. Cecil and the Major retired to bed, but not to sleep. Few eyes were closed at Dreuxfield Hall that night, and the air was charged with terror and suspicion. The diamond necklace was gone, but no one, least of all its owner, knew who had thieved it so dexterously.
The next morning Dreuxfield wired for detectives and called in the local police. I (who tell the story) was deputed to look after the case, and on arriving at Malvern I was put in possession of the facts. From such statements I could not guess who was the thief, and proceeded to examine the servants. The result was unsatisfactory, and I tackled the gentry. Dreuxfield, his wife, and sister could tell me nothing, and altogether the loss of that necklace was as deep a mystery as ever I had to do with.
It rather added to my perplexity when I found that Major Onslow and his valet had that morning gone to London. He had explained that he knew a man who would elucidate any mystery better than a professional detective, and was going to fetch him down. Then I inquired after the Curate, and Miss Kate produced a hastily-scribbled note.
“He went to town this morning,” she explained, not without embarrassment.
“Do you know on what business, Miss Dreuxfield?”
“Something connected with a relative,” said she, glancing at the note.
I must say the conduct of the Curate appeared suspicious. Dreuxfield very unwillingly told me of the chloroform episode in the drawing-room. This did not tend to exculpate Newall, so I examined the position of the smoking-room relative to the strong-room. Both were on the ground-floor, and it was easy to get from one to the other. I suppose my suspicions showed themselves in my face, for Dreuxfield took me sharply to task.
“I know what you are thinking of,” said he—“that Mr. Newall did not go to the smoking-room, but when I returned for the jewels hid himself in the strong-room passage. You are wrong. It is absolutely impossible that he should be the thief.”
“Yet his clothes were scented with chloroform, and by that drug you were rendered senseless.”
“Yes,” admitted Dreuxfield reluctantly, “but that proves nothing.”
“Nothing! Save that he must have had chloroform on him yesterday. Rather a curious drug for a person to carry. Then he went to London this morning. That looks suspicious.”
“I suppose you’ll say he took the necklace with him”
“It’s not impossible.”
“I have known Newall for many years,” said Dreuxfield earnestly, “and I assure you that he is incapable of such an act,”
His sister, who had overheard our conversation, withered me with a glance.
“Mr. Newall is a gentleman and a clergyman,” she declared indignantly. “I would as soon think of suspecting my brother as him. To-morrow he returns, and he will face the charge you have brought against him.”
“I have brought no charge against him—yet,” I answered, and so closed the discussion.
Notwithstanding all my efforts I could discover nothing likely to lead to the arrest of the thief. The servants all asserted their innocence, and supported one another strongly after the fashion of their kind. In my own heart I suspected the Curate, and waited with some impatience for his arrival. A personal interview would simplify matters. Rather to the dismay of Kate Dreuxfield, he did not return next day, thereby confirming my suspicions. The last train brought the Major, full of stories about the Curate, none of which redounded to the young man’s credit.
“Do you know why I went to town, Cecil?” he asked Mr. Dreuxfield in my presence.
“To fetch some special detective of your own.”
“That was merely an excuse to keep Kate quiet. No! I followed Newall to town.”
“That is the Curate, Major?” said I.
“Yes, sir,” he answered triumphantly, “that sneaking parson. I suspected he had something to do with the robbery, and I am right.”
“Do you mean to say Newall stole the necklace?” asked Dreuxfield, looking very pale.
“Yes, I do! I have no positive proof, but strong suspicions.”
“Those go for nothing.”
“Wait a moment, Mr. Dreuxfield,” I whispered. “Let Major Onslow tell his story.”
“After the robbery,” said the ivory-leg gentleman, “I thought the parson might have had something to do with it, as I neither liked nor trusted him. If my suspicions were correct, I fancied he would go to town next day, so at dawn I sent out to learn his movements. Sure enough Newall was going to town by the ten o’clock train, so without saying anything I followed him. Strange to say, he drove from Waterloo to my own lawyers. I waited till his interview was finished, and then I saw my solicitor. He of course refused to reveal anything, but he hinted sufficient for me to know that Newall intended to pay him a large sum of money on that day. I then had no doubt that Newall had stolen the necklace, and was about to raise money on it.”
“But I don’t see—”
“Of course you don’t,” interrupted Onslow, cutting short Dreuxfield’s remark, “you believe in the fellow. I don’t. I know, and you know, that he hasn’t a sixpence, and yet he traffics with lawyers over large sums of money. After that discovery I left the office and hung about all day—”
“Most respectable employment,” sneered Dreuxfield.
“It was in your interest,” reproved the Major with dignity. “In the afternoon I saw this wolf in sheep’s clothing coming back. While he was with the senior partner a clerk left the office and took a hansom. I followed in another. He went to the bank and presented a cheque for three thousand pounds. I saw the cheque, it was signed by Newall. Now then,” concluded Onslow triumphantly, “where did Newall get that money if not by pledging the necklace?”
Dreuxfield and I made no immediate comment. Things looked fishy for the Curate, and his actions fitted in neatly with the suspicion that he was the thief. Meantime I left Onslow to gloat over his perspicuity, and took Dreuxfield aside.
“Excuse me, sir,” said I, “but I am about to say something rude.”
“Say away,” he answered, looking rather pale, “I won’t be offended.”
“I have examined all the servants, sir, and I am pretty certain that not one of them is clever enough to have carried out this robbery. Suspicions point towards Mr. Newall, yet for the moment let us give him the benefit of the doubt and see who else could have stolen the jewels. Now if—”
Seeing I hesitated, Dreuxfield anticipated my speech.
“You are thinking of Major Onslow?”
“Well, yes! I hear a good deal of club gossip, and, to tell the honest truth, Major Onslow does not bear a good character.”
“I know all that,” said Dreuxfield bitterly; “he is an old rogue who would sell his soul—if he has one—to gratify his vices. Yet I don’t think he is the thief. He retired early to bed, and his valet took his ivory leg away. Without that leg he could do nothing.”
“Suppose his valet didn’t take away his master’s ivory leg?”
“Ah! you think the two of them are in it?”
“I can’t say! Wait till I see the Curate. It seems to me that Major Onslow is suspiciously active in getting evidence against him, At present I should like to see the valet.”
“Uncle,” said Dreuxfield, returning to the old man, “can we see Jenkins?”
“He didn’t come back with me,” replied Onslow gruffly. “I gave him permission to see his relatives.”
“When do you expect him back?”
“In a week! You don’t think he stole the necklace, do you?” finished the Major defiantly.
“No,” said I, shirking the answer, “but I have examined all the servants except your man. It is only fair that he should have his turn.”
“Wait here for a week and you’ll see him,” replied the Major ungraciously, “or go to my London club. He calls there every morning for my letters and sends them on. I don’t trust club servants.”
“Oh, I shan’t trouble so much about him,” I said, so our party of three broke up.
It was too late that evening to wire, but in the morning I sent a telegram to a brother detective containing instructions to see Jenkins at the club. By noon I received a reply, with which I went in search of the Major. On the way Miss Dreuxfield stopped me.
“Mr. Newall is coming down this afternoon,” she said, showing me a letter; “he will be here at four o’clock. Then your suspicions will be explained away.”
“I hope so with all my heart. But I may mention, Miss Dreuxfield, that I brought no specific charge against Mr. Newall.”
I spoke to the empty air, for by this time she was out of hearing. My hintings had offended her mortally, but no one could have held the Curate guiltless in the face of the evidence against him. Next I found the Major in the drawing-room, and opened fire at once.
“Your servant is coming down by this afternoon’s train, Major.”
“Who sent for him?”
“I did! It is as well that I should hear what he has to say”
“He has nothing to say,” growled the Major sulkily; “he put me to bed and took my ivory leg to his room. He wasn’t near the strong-room, or even down-stairs.”
“His assurance of that will be quite sufficient, so I am glad he is coming. Mr. Newall is also on his way.”
“I hope he won’t have the face to show here.”
“Indeed, he is coming down for the purpose. Miss Dreuxfield has advised him of your accusations, and he desires to clear his character,”
“He won’t be able to. I’m certain he stole the necklace.”
I had my own opinion about the robbery, and held my tongue. If the Major was mixed up in the business with the valet, he had received due warning that justice was on his track. Contrary to my expectations, he was by no means startled. The man puzzled me.
At five o’clock the train arrived, and with it Jenkins. My brother detective was with him, and the three of us had a conversation. Then we went to Dreuxfield Hall to see how Mr. Newall was getting on. He had come down by the same train, and had at once gone off to look after his character. It was about time, seeing the Major had done his best to spoil it.
When we arrived I left Jenkins and his escort outside in the entrance-hall, as I was anxious to hear Newall’s defence before producing the valet as a witness. All the gentry concerned in the matter were assembled in the drawing-room—Dreuxfield and his wife near the door opening on to the conservatory, Onslow standing in the conservatory itself, Newall, with Kate clinging to his arm, facing the three. He was quite pale, and looked savage.
“I absolutely deny the accusations of Major Onslow,” he was saying when I entered; “no one knows less about the matter than I do.”
“What ahout the chloroform?” sneered Onslow, “and your hurried departure to town, and the cheque for three thousand?”
“All that I can explain except the chloroform. That is a mystery to me as to you. I did spill some medicine in the afternoon, and I fancied that was the odour to which Dreuxfield alluded. When he mentioned chloroform I was startled.”
“I’ve no doubt of it.”
“Because,” added Newall, gazing defiantly at the Major, “I had that day received a letter from my wretched cousin Clive saying he had embezzled some money, and threatening to poison himself with chloroform unless I saved him.”
“That was why you turned so pale?” said Kate breathlessly.
“Yes! and that was why I went to town next day. It had nothing to do with the loss of the diamonds. I drove to your lawyers and arranged to settle the matter by paying the money. Fortunately, two months ago I inherited five thousand pounds, on which I had hoped to have married.”
“And shall marry,” murmured Kate under her breath.
“I sold out some stock and got the money—paid it to my lawyer, who settled the matter for my wretched cousin. I was arranging for his departure to the colonies when I heard through Kate of Major Onslow’s shameless accusations. I came down here to refute them, and I have done so.”
“Not to my mind,” growled Onslow.
“I think otherwise,” said Dreuxfield, taking Newall by the hand. “My dear fellow, you are as innocent as I. Forgive me for having doubted you.”
Mrs. Dreuxfield said words to the same effect, and Kate boldly kissed her lover before them all. It was a pleasant sight save to the Major, who swore loudly.
“This doesn’t show who stole the necklace. If it wasn’t Newall, who was it?”
“What about yourself, Major?” said I, coming forward. The four people turned round in astonishment, and the Major, purple with rage, started forward.
“What do you mean, sir?” he cried, with a few adjectives which I suppress. I went to the door and led in the respectable Jenkins—handcuffed.
“I mean this, Major, that your valet is about the biggest thief in London. He has been long wanted for several jobs, but he managed to evade the police. Thanks to your information, he was captured at your club and brought down to give evidence—against you.”
“Against me!” said Onslow, growing grey. “I swear I had nothing to do with the theft of the necklace.”
There was a dead silence, and all waited for the next remark. It came from Jenkins—from the respectable Jenkins, alias Cracky Bill.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he said, bowing collectively, “I told the police I would give evidence against the Major in order to be brought down here. But it is a lie. My master is quite innocent, and,” he added impudently, “so am I.”
“That won’t save you, my man,” said I sternly; “your other pranks mean a lifer, so you may as well confess your share in this.”
“Well, the Major’s innocent, at all events,” said the rogue.
“Thank you, my man,” muttered Onslow thickly. “I’ll—I’ll”—here he swayed to and fro, then fell down in an apoplectic fit. There was a snap as he fell, and lo! a marvel. The butt of the ivory leg had caught in an interstice of the conservatory floor, and when he fell the leg smashed. Dreuxfield uttered a cry of astonishment, and pointed to the ivory stump. From it fell a rain of diamonds. The next-moment Newall and Dreuxfield were picking up the jewels, and the women were loosening the neckcloth of the old man. I gripped Jenkins by the arm and indicated the scattered jewels.
“You lied! He is guilty!”
“Not a bit of it,” said the scamp coolly; “don’t you run your head against a stone, sir. Major Onslow hasn’t been a bad master as masters go, and I’m not going to get him into trouble. He is quite innocent.”
“Then how did the diamonds get into the ivory leg?”
“I put them there. It was this way. I wanted to steal those diamonds, and by means of a forged character I entered the Major’s service. Then I watched for a chance to steal the jewels. I thought there would be no opportunity of getting out of the house during the first alarm if they were stolen, so I looked about for some safe place in which to hide them till I could take them to London at my leisure. As I cleaned the Major’s ivory leg every night, it gave me an idea. I bored a hole half-way down the leg and dropped the diamonds in one by one. They just filled the hollow nicely.”
“How did you steal them?”
“I heard Miss Dreuxfield say at breakfast that the master was going to show them to Mr. Newall, so I watched. All my plans were made, and I waited by the strong-room door with a chloroformed handkerchief. When he came along I used it, and stole the jewels. In my own room I separated them one from the other, and dropped them into the hollow of the ivory leg. Then I plugged up the end with cotton wool and a round of ivory. The alarm was given, the Major called for his leg, and I took it to him. He went down to the hall with the diamonds safe in his ivory leg.”
“Ah!” cried Newall at this moment, “you helped me off with my coat. Now I understand the smell of chloroform.”
“I sprinkled you with a little,” replied Jenkins. “You see, parson, I wanted to get suspicion to fall on you. But for the smashing of the leg I wouldn’t tell all this. But I’ve lost the diamonds and my liberty, so it doesn’t matter.”
The Major had by this time revived somewhat, and sat up to swear at his quondam servant.
“You villain!” he said, “oh, you villain!”
“And this,” said Jenkins, as we marched him out, “this is gratitude.”
Jenkins received the reward of his ingenuity, and passed the rest of his life in gaol for this and other offences. He always regretted not having pulled off the Dreuxfield fetich. The Major took himself away from Malvern, and declined to have further dealings with the Dreuxfields. They were by no means sorry, and, indeed, had no time to be, for shortly afterwards Kate Dreuxfield married Newall, to the delight of all. I can imagine the Major’s language when he heard of the marriage. He wears a wooden leg now.
The twenty-four diamonds were at the last Drawing-room on the neck of their owner. I have no doubt that, sooner or later, another attempt will be made to steal them, but it is questionable whether any thief will be as ingenious as Cracky Bill, alias Jenkins. But then, it isn’t every valet and thief who chances on a master with an ivory leg.
