I HAD received an invitation to spend the evening at Oak Tree Road, but I had been detained by business, and it was past nine o’clock when my cabman, making a mistake in the number, pulled up at a house short of the Denes’. While I was feeling in all my pockets for the odd sixpence to make up the cabman’s fare—as usual with the fraternity he had no change—the door opened, and an elegantly-dressed lady came hurriedly out.
She started back nervously as she saw me, and I at once jumped to the conclusion that it was a lady who was paying her first visit to a private detective, and was fearful that someone might see her and recognise her. She seemed to hesitate for a moment, till she saw me hand the fare to the cabman, then she hailed him and got in, lifted the trap door, and said, “Drive to St. John’s Wood Chapel.”
“She’ll tell him where to drive her when she gets to the chapel,” I said to myself, as I stood and watched the cab out of sight.
The lady, in her agitation, had forgotten to pull the door to, so I entered without ringing, walked up the little garden path, and found Dorcas waiting for me in the hall with the house door wide open.
“You’ve been having a good look at my lady visitor, Mr. Saxon,” she said with a smile. “Well, she will probably think you are another client.”
“And pray how do you know that I have been having ‘a good look,’ as you call it, at your visitor?” I said laughingly.
“I heard your cab drive up just as I was letting her out; she left the door ajar, and you would have come in at once if you had not been otherwise engaged You didn’t even come in, you know, when the cab drove away, so I conclude that you looked after it for some time, probably making a mental note of the number.”
“You have guessed exactly what passed in my mind. I saw you had an aristocratic visitor, and a nervous one, and I wondered if there was anything for me to do this time.”
“I don’t know yet,” said Dorcas, “but come into the drawing-room. Mother is spending the evening with some friends of hers, and Paul has been alone for nearly an hour. My new client’s first visit has been rather a long one.” Dorcas led the way to the drawing-room, where Paul was sitting on the sofa with Toddlekins, the bulldog, stretched out across his knees.
Paul put the dog gently down, and rising as I entered, held out his hand. “We expected you two hours ago,” he said, “but better late than not at all. I thought Dorcas’s visitor was going to stay for hours, and that you weren’t coming, and that I should really begin to recognise the value of Mrs. Lester as a conversationalist in my solitary condition.”
“I’m awfully sorry, dear,” said Dorcas, taking her husband’s arm, and drawing him gently down on the sofa beside her, “but it’s always the way. Directly I’ve made up my mind to have a quiet evening with you, somebody is sure to call.”
“Is it a case?” asked Paul.
“Yes, and I’m afraid it will be rather a difficult one; but it won’t take me away from home altogether, thank goodness. At least, I hope not. But I’ll tell you all about it, and see what you think. I haven’t made up my mind yet how to start on my task.”
“Oh, it isn’t a pressing case, then?” I said. “I was hoping that I’d arrived just in the nick of time for an ‘engagement.’”
“It isn’t particularly pressing now,” replied Dorcas, looking at the clock on the mantelpiece, “but it will be at midnight, for at that hour I have to be under a lamp-post in Berkeley Square.”
“Under a lamp-post in Berkeley Square at midnight! Then I’m sure Paul will agree with me that it is a case for my assistance. I’m to be under that lamp-post with Dorcas, am I not, Paul?”
Paul smiled. “That’s for Dorcas to say, old fellow. She knows her business better than we do. But we’ll leave the lamp-post for further consideration. Let us have the case, Dorcas.”
“It is simple so far,” said the famous lady detective, “but nonetheless mysterious for that. The lady who has just left me is the wife of Mr. Judkins Barraclough.”
“What—the mysterious millionaire, who three years ago fell apparently from the clouds and descended on London in a shower of gold?—the Crœsus who seems to have discovered the royal road to the perpetual paragraph?”
“The same.”
“Then the lady I met at the gate was Lady Anna Barraclough. He married her about a year ago. She was a young widow. Her first husband ran through all his money on the turf and left her very badly off when he died at the age of seven-and-twenty of—let me see, what did they call it?—typhoid, I think.”
“Quite right,” said Dorcas, “your account agrees with the short sketch of her career Lady Anna Barraclough has already given me.”
“What could she have married a man like Judkins Barraclough for?—his money, I suppose. He must be five-and-forty, and he has all the worst qualities of the ostentations parvenu. Is it about him that she had come to you?”
“Yes, poor girl—for she is only five-and-twenty now—she made me feel quite sorry for her when she told me her story. She has had a terrible experience of marriage. Her first husband she loved, and he spent every shilling of her money as well as his own. When Mr. Judkins Barraclough met her she was dependent on a married brother, the Earl of Dashton, whose wife detested her. When the millionaire proposed to her, the poor girl, worried and embittered by the constant humiliation of her dependent position, accepted his offer in the recklessness of despair. She didn’t expect to be happy with a man whom she felt it was impossible she could ever love, but at least she hoped for peace. And now—guess why she has come to me to-night.”
“To get a divorce, I should think. It would be about the best thing you could get for her, if all I hear of Mr. Judkins Barraclough’s manners and habits is correct. I suppose he carried her because he thought a wife who was a lady of title would be a good advertisement for him. Is it to get a divorce she has come to you?”
“No, Lady Anna has a haunting suspicion that the man she has married is not her legal husband—that he had a wife living when he married her.”
“Then if she thinks that why doesn’t she go to the police?”
Dorcas shook her head. “You forget the man is a millionaire living in Berkeley Square—the police would hardly take up a charge against him made by his wife merely because she suspects. ‘If I am really this man’s wife,’ said Lady Anna, ‘I have no right to go to the police, for he is my husband. I have come to you to find out everything for me first. Oh, if you can only tell me that I am a free woman, that I owe no further allegiance to this wretch whom I despise—whom I loathe—you will have done me the greatest service one woman can do for another!’ Poor girl! It was a cry from the heart. I felt sorry for her, and I promised that I would do anything I could to ease her mind, or, at any rate, to put an end to the dreadful state of suspicion and uncertainty in which she is at present living. Oh!” said Dorcas, with a shudder, “how horrible it must be, to have to go about before the world with a smiling face bearing the name of a man you detest—to have to submit alike to the curses and the caresses of a man whom in your heart you believe to be the husband of another woman!”
“And what is your idea?” I said, looking scrutinisingly at Dorcas’s face.
“To-night I shall start on my voyage of discovery. I shall see Mr. Judkins Barraclough, the famous millionaire, and then I shall begin to trace him back and back until I find out——”
“What?”
“Who he was before he arrived in London from South America and set up as a millionaire.”
“But you say Lady Anna Barraclough suspects her husband us being a bigamist—what has put such an unpleasant idea into her head?”
“Something that has occurred lately. Mr. Judkins Barraclough, who has been coarse and cruel for some time past, has suddenly altered his demeanour. He has lost all his old overbearing brutality. He is nervous, and has evidently something on his mind. One night her ladyship retired late to her own apartment, which is separated from her husband’s by his dressing-room. At two in the morning she heard the front door close, and a few minutes later she heard her husband enter the dressing-room. It seemed to her that he must be in pain, for she distinctly heard him every now and then utter a low groan.
“She rose and went quietly into the dressing-room and found Mr. Judkins Barraclough washing a wound in his right arm with Condy. Lady Anna Barraclough saw at once that the wound looked like a bite—the marks of teeth were distinctly visible.
“Mr. Judkins Barraclough stammered out an explanation. A savage dog had attacked him as he was coming through a back street on his way home. He had raised his umbrella to be at it off, and it had flown at him and fastened its teeth in his arm. Then, somewhat angrily, he told his wife to go back to her own room; he was all right.
“Instantly Lady Anna Barraclough’s suspicions were aroused. If a dog had bitten him her husband would have gone to a doctor’s at once and had the wound dressed. Why should he come home and attend to it himself? There was only one solution—that the bite had been received under circumstances which he would be unable to explain satisfactorily.”
“Ah,” said Paul, “it is a woman who bites as a rule, not a man.”
“Yes,” replied Dorcas, “that was her ladyship’s idea. Her husband had been bitten by a woman, and a woman only bites when she is mad with rage and her hands are being held.
“Since that night Mr. Judkins Barraclough has been out nearly all day and has not returned till late. But he has not ordered his carriage to take or fetch him on one single occasion. These circumstances aroused her ladyship’s suspicions that something was wrong, and that there was trouble in which a woman was concerned. Her husband had evidently quarrelled with one who had attacked him.
“The attack—and what else could the bitten arm suggest?—would hardly be that of a mistress. A millionaire is not so shabbily treated in his gallantries, because a millionaire of the Judkins Barraclough type is only attractive on account of his wealth, and to bite a millionaire’s arm is not exactly the way to retain his good graces. The man’s altered demeanour, his evident fear of something, the bitten arm, the long absences from home, and the non-employment of the carriages and horses all point, in Lady Anna’s idea, to one thing—the power of some woman to interfere with him, perhaps to ruin him. Supposing in the old days, before he became wealthy, this man had a wife whom he had left in poverty, and she had discovered him, a wealthy bigamist, that would account for everything. But,” said Dorcas, quietly, “supper’s ready, and after supper I must be off.”
Paul listed his sightless eyes to his wife’s face.
“There’s a little invitation I should like you to give our guest to-night,” he said, “I’m sure he’d like it, and I’m sure he deserves it.”
“And what is that, dear?”
“Mrs. Dorcas Dene requests the pleasure of Mr. Saxon’s company at 11.45 for midnight, underneath the lamp-post immediately opposite the residence of Mr. Judkins Barraclough, in Berkeley Square.”
“Dorcas laughed quite a ringing little laugh.
“Of course, if you wish it, dear,” she said.
Then turning to me with a quick resumption of her former seriousness of expression, she added:
“Honestly I shall be glad of your company. From what her ladyship has told me I don’t think this South American millionaire is exactly the sort of wild animal for a woman to hunt alone.”
* * *
It was half-past twelve when a hansom drove up to the door of No. —, Berkeley Square, and a gentleman with a long, loose summer overcoat got out and paid the cabman and ran up the steps.
Dorcas had told me that Mr. Barraclough would probably arrive in a cab, as for several nights recently he had not ordered the carriage to meet him anywhere, so Lady Anna had informed her.
Mr. Barraclough had let himself in with the latchkey before the cabman had pocketed his fare and picked up his reins to drive away.
“Now,” said Dorcas, “we must find out where that man took Mr. Barraclough up. It is somewhere he doesn’t want known. That is the reason he doesn’t order his carriage to fetch him. It may be only a street corner. But wherever it is, it is the first step backwards towards the goal that lies far away in the past.”
“But we can’t tell the cabman to take us to where he picked his fare up, can we?” I said, hesitatingly.
“Leave that to me,” replied Dorcas. “You call the cabman.”
I obeyed, and the cabman turned his horse round and drew up to the kerb. Dorcas got half way in and then got out again and looked at the horse.
“You’ve been driving too fast, cabman,” she said; “why, your poor horse is breathing quite hard.”
“Lor bless you, ma’am!” said the cabman, “that’s nothing—that’s his natural breathing! Why, he only come out of the yard half an hour ago, and I’ve only had one fare.”
“One fare? It must have been a good journey by the look of the horse.”
Then turning to me, she said:
“Don’t let us take this cab—we’ll get another—the horse is done up.”
“Well, I’m blowed!” exclaimed the cabman. “That’s a good one. Why, how far do you think the horse has come?”
“Oh,” said Dorcas, “perhaps from Hampstead or Brixton.”
“Hampstead or Brixton!” exclaimed the driver, wrathfully. “This here horse came out of the yard in St. Pancras just afore twelve o’clock, and a gent hailed me as was coming out of a house in Burton Crescent, and I drove him here, and that’s all the work my horse has done to-night.”
“Oh, very well,” said Dorcas. Then turning to me, she said: “Give the man a shilling and let him go. I’m not going to ride behind that horse.”
The man took the shilling and drove off, muttering to himself, and Dorcas and I strolled a little way along.
“He came out of a house in Burton Crescent,” she muttered; “that’s something.”
“Why didn’t you ask him which house?”
“Too risky. The man might think something was up and find Barraclough to-morrow and tell him, in hope of a reward. But I took the man’s number in case I want him later.”
“Very well. What are you going to do now?” I asked. “Are you going home?”
“No—let us go to Burton Crescent.”
“What on earth’s the good of that? You can’t find out the house Mr. Barraclough came out of to-night. There’s not the slightest clue.”
“There may be. Did you notice that when he put his umbrella up to stop the cabman he held it in his left hand?”
“Well?”
“When he got out he shifted his umbrella to his right hand, and felt with his left hand in his left pocket for the silver. Mr. Judkins Barraclough is still feeling the effects of that bitten right arm.”
“Possibly—probably. But how on earth can his being temporarily left-handed guide us to the particular house he came out of in Burton Crescent?”
“I don’t say it will—but it may. Let us go.”
We took a cab, and got out at the end of Burton Crescent. We walked entirely round it, Dorcas Dene going up the steps of each house in turn, end examining them carefully.
“Suddenly she uttered a little cry of delight. This is the house,” she exclaimed. “Look!”
She pointed to three or four rose leaves lying on the steps of No.—.
I looked at them bewildered, remembering that when Mr. Barraclough got out of the cab he had a large rose in the buttonhole of his overcoat.
“I see the leaves,” I said. “But what on earth made you imagine they would be there, and—and where does the left hand come in?”
“It’s very simple,” replied Dorcas. “I looked at Mr. Judkins Barraclough very carefully when he got out of the cab, and I noticed that the rose in his buttonhole was rather dilapidated. It had evidently been in contact with something, and several of the leaves were gone. Of course they might have dropped accidentally, but I instantly evolved a theory to account for the missing leaves. I glanced inside the cab while I was looking the horse up and down, there weren’t any leaves there, so he hadn’t crushed his rose in getting into it. If he had, some of the leaves would have fallen on the matting. I noticed that he used his left hand. The probability was that he hailed the cab with the umbrella in his left hand. The cabman said he was coming out of the house when he hailed him, so he would be on the steps at the time. Now, if you lifted your left hand hurriedly, as if hailing a cab that was passing, you would probably bring your arm up against the left side of your overcoat. Your arm would probably brush against a flower if you had one as large as a rose, and particularly if it projected as far forward as Mr. Barraclough’s did. I said to myself, ‘He might have knocked The leaves off that rose when he hailed the cab on a door-step n Burton Crescent.’ My surmise fortunately turns out to be correct. Here are the roseleaves, and therefore this is the house.”
“It’s wonderful!” I said, “but after all, it’s just one chance in a thousand.”
“It is that one chance,” replied Dorcas, quietly, “that in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred brings the criminal into the hands of justice. Chance is the most successful detective the world has ever known.”
Dorcas stepped back and looked up at the house.
“There are no lights anywhere,” she said, “but we’ll see what the inhabitants are like.”
She seized the bell and rang it violently, and then gave a loud double knock. There was no sound inside the house. We waited a few minutes, then Dorcas knocked again, this time loud enough to wake up everybody in the Crescent. Still no one came, and the house remained in darkness.
“I’ll try again,” she said. “I’m sure to wake the people up on one side or other, and they’ll think, perhaps, it’s their knocker, and look out of the window.”
Dorcas knocked this time for fully a couple of minutes, and at last she produced the desired effect.
A third floor window in the next house opened, and a woman put her head out.
“What’s the good of your knocking there, a-frightening people out of their seven senses;” she called out angrily. “What do you want?”
“Mr. Robinson,” replied Dorcas. “A relative of his is dying, and I’ve come to fetch him.”
“You’ve come to the wrong house, then,” said the woman, snappishly. “There ain’t no Mr. Robinson there, ’cos the house is empty. Leastways, there ain’t nobody sleepin’ there.”
“But Mr. Robinson was here this evening,” replied Dorcas, unabashed.
“Oh, you mean the gent as has taken the place and ain’t moved in yet, perhaps—I don’t know his name. He ain’t there now, I tell you. He only comes there now and then, and nobody’s living there, and the tradespeople don’t call. If you can’t believe me, ask a policeman, only for goodness’ sake leave off knocking. You’re making yourself a noosance to the neighbourhood.”
Dorcas thanked her informant, and we moved away. “Goodnight,” said Dorcas, as we got to the corner. “I’ll take a cab and go home now. Mr. Barraclough is renting an empty house. I must find out why he does so.”
“When shall we do that?”
“The day after to-morrow. I must have a couple of days to myself now. If you’ve nothing to do, come to Oak Tree Road in the evening the day after to-morrow, at ten o’clock.”
I assured Dorcas that I should be delighted. I saw her into a cab, and wished her good-night, and went home, wondering to myself what on earth a millionaire with a magnificent establishment in Berkeley Square could want with an empty house in Burton Crescent.
* * *
During the afternoon of the appointed day I received a telegram—“Come evening dress. Dorcas.”
When I arrived at Oak Tree Road at ten o’clock in the evening, I found Dorcas busily engaged in trying the wick of a dark lantern, and on the floor beside her lay an open brown paper parcel filled with goloshes.
“Good gracious,” I exclaimed, “are you going burgling?”
“Something very like it,” she replied, lighting the lantern to satisfy herself that it was all right. “Just try on those goloshes and see if any of them will fit over your boots.”
“But what do I want with goloshes? It’s a perfectly dry night.”
“You are going burgling with me—that is, of course, if you are not afraid.”
“Burgling in evening dress!” I exclaimed. “I’m not afraid to do anything that you tell me is right, but I haven’t been brought up to the profession, you know.”
I selected a pair of goloshes which I thought likely to suit, and found they fitted over my boots perfectly.
“That’s all right—put them in that bag,” said Dorcas, pointing to a black bag on the sofa. Then she blew the lamp out, and fastening it to a leather belt, fitted it round her waist.
“You look like a female policeman,” I exclaimed, “but you’re not going through the streets with that on!”
“Nobody will see it under my long cloak. Here is a box of silent matches, put that in the bag too.”
I obeyed mechanically.
“Now,” said Dorcas, “come to supper. Paul is in the dining-room waiting for us. We don’t start till twelve.”
“But where are we going?”
“To look over that empty house in Burton Crescent,” replied Dorcas, quite calmly. “I have seen Lady Anna Barraclough today. Her husband wears his keys on a chain. The chances are that the key he uses to let himself into Burton Crescent will be on the bunch. He wouldn’t carry it loose for fear of leaving it in his pocket when he changed his clothes, and perhaps forgetting it just when he wanted it. I shall have his keys directly he is asleep to-night, so Heaven grant him sweet repose directly he lays his head on the pillow. I reckon on having his keys before two o’clock in the morning.”
“But how will you manage it?”
“I have arranged it with her ladyship. They occupy, you remember, two rooms separated by Mr. Barraclough’s dressing-room. There he leaves all his clothes for his valet to brush and attend to in the morning. After he is asleep, Lady Barraclough will go quietly into the dressing-room from her room, and detach the keys from the chain, which is attached to his braces. I shall be on the opposite side of the square in a four-wheel cab, which will be driven by a cabman whom I frequently engage and whom I can trust. Sitting in the cab I shall avoid the attention of the policeman, who might otherwise wonder why you and I were loitering about so long in one place. But from the cab I shall be watching the windows of No.—, Berkeley Square. When I see a corner of the blind pulled up in Lady Barraclough’s room, and a lighted candle shown for a moment, I shall know she has the keys.”
“Yes,” I said, “that’s all very well. But how is she going to give you the keys?”
“She isn’t—she is going to give them to you.”
“To me!” I exclaimed; “where?—when?—how?”
“You will be strolling about smoking a cigar. Being in evening dress you will not attract the notice of any inquisitive policeman, should one happen to be about. You will watch for that signal, too, and when you see it, you will go up the steps of No. — as if you were going to ring to be let in.
“Lady Anna will come quietly downstairs, open the door, and give you the keys. Then you will walk away quietly into Piccadilly. My cab will follow and stop opposite Walsingham House. Then you will get in and we shall drive to the top of Burton Crescent. Our cabman will wait for us round the corner.”
“In case of our having to make a run for it?”
“No—because at five o’clock in the morning Lady Anna Barraclough will creep downstairs again and feel in the letter box.”
“What for—a note from you?”
“No—the keys. You will put them there when we have done with them. Then she will go back into her husband’s dressing-room, fasten them on to the chain on his braces again, and he will get up in the morning and see them and never dream that they have been having a ‘night out.’”
“And suppose the key of the house isn’t on the bunch?”
“Then we shall have had our journey for nothing. But the reasonable supposition is that it will be. Now come to supper, and make a good one, for we have a rough night’s work before us.”
* * *
Two hours later a light flashed in a second floor window of No. —, Berkeley Square, and with a beating heart I went up the steps. The door opened quietly, and a woman’s hand came cautiously through the opening and touched mine. I clutched the keys, slipped them into my pocket, and strode away in the direction of Piccadilly.
When the four-wheel cab stopped I got in and gave the keys to Dorcas. “So far, so good,” she said. “Now with average luck we shall get into that empty house without attracting attention, and discover the millionaire’s secret.”
Dorcas was holding the keys up to the light that came through the cab window and examining them carefully.
“There are two latchkeys at any rate,” she said. “Let us hope that one of them will unlock the cupboard in which Mr. Judkins Barraclough keeps his skeleton.”
AS the cab made its way towards Burton Crescent I am not ashamed to confess that I had misgivings as to the success of our enterprise. Not having been brought up to burglary, I contemplated with something akin to nervousness my début as a “cracksman,” and I pictured to myself the awkward predicament in which we should find ourselves if we were discovered by a watchful policeman, creeping about a house with goloshes over our boots and a dark lantern and silent matches in our possession.
I put the point to Dorcas. As we had probably the key of the house in Burton Crescent with us, why should we compromise our position by taking the implements of burglary with us?
“Because,” said Dorcas, “it is better to be over-cautious than over-bold in my profession. If there should be anyone in the house I want to see them before they hear me, and that is why I have taken precautions with our boots and with our light.”
“Do you think Mr. Barraclough has visited the house since we were there?”
“Yes; I watched the house for a short time last evening. A dark-complexioned, white-haired old gentleman, with a closely, cropped white moustache and gold spectacles, let himself in about nine o’clock. No such person came out again. But towards midnight the door was opened, and a gentleman in a long grey overcoat came out. That person I did not see enter; but of course that is not conclusive, as I only commenced to watch about eight in the evening.”
“And the person who came out was——?”
“Judkins Barraclough.”
“Do you think the dark old man will be in the house tonight?”
“No,” said Dorcas, in an emphatic tone, “I don’t! But I have some more interesting information gathered during the last two days round the neighbourhood. The local tradespeople, who are always on the watch when the ‘To Let’ is taken out of the windows of a house, saw a van at the door delivering goods one day last week. The person who was superintending the disposal of the goods was an old gentleman with very white hair and gold spectacles, and a closely-cropped, white moustache. His face and hands were very dark, and he looked like a native of India in European clothes. The baker’s man, seeing the door open and cases being delivered, presented his master’s card. The Indian gentleman replied in excellent English that the family would not be corning in for a month or six weeks.”
“Then this Indian gentleman must be the dark man you saw go in. Have you any clue to his identity?”
“I have ascertained certain particulars concerning him. To find out who delivered the goods at Burton Crescent was my next object. It is the general custom for policemen to take the name on a van that is delivering or removing goods from a house. Many robberies have been traced in this way. The constable on duty in the neighbourhood at that time was able to tell me to whom the van belonged. I went at once to a retired police sergeant whom I frequently employ to make ordinary private inquiries, and gave him instructions to find out where the van took the goods from, and if possible what they were.
“In a few hours he sent me his report. The van had brought two cases of brandy from a firm of wine merchants; hammers, saws, nails, etc., from an ironmonger’s; half a dozen large indiarubber mats, and several rolls of wire netting. All these things, it was found, had been purchased and paid for by a white-haired gentleman in gold spectacles, having the appearance of a native of India. He gave his name and address as Mr. Aleem Mohammed, No. —, Burton Crescent.”
“Well, you can soon find out who Mr. Aleem Mohammed is by the numbers of the notes he paid to the house agents. Banknotes are always useful clues.”
“Mr. Aleem Mohammed has evidently thought of that,” replied Dorcas. “I have traced the notes. They were obtained at a money-changer’s at Charing Cross, by a gentleman answering to our Indian friend’s description. He gave sovereigns for them. I have also been to the house agents. The house was let to Mr. Aleem Mohammed, who had paid a year’s rent in advance in bank-notes, having no one in this country to whom he could refer.”
“Don’t you think,” I said, after a pause, “the whole business may be capable of a very simple explanation? After all, Barraclough hailed a cab from the doorstep, and the cab drove him direct to his own residence. Would he, if he were mixed up in any crime in connection with this house, establish a direct trail?”
“I have been thinking that out myself,” replied Dorcas; “but I am inclined to believe it was one of those slips that very cunning people do make occasionally. Coming out late at night, there was nobody about, and he hailed a cab barely thinking what he was doing, and said, ‘Berkeley Square.’ He stopped it at his own door with his umbrella mechanically, as one is in the habit of doing.”
“And the Indian gentleman?”
“I believe is Barraclough. He is a dark man, browned with the sun of South America. He could easily carry a white wig and a false moustache and a pair of gold spectacles in a Gladstone bag coming out of the house at night. When he goes into it in the daylight as the Indian he can have that light overcoat and his flower in the same bag.”
“But the night we saw him he had no bag.”
“No; but he might easily have had the wig and moustache in his overcoat pocket. At any rate, I am pretty sure that Aleem Mohammed and Judkins Barraclough are the same person.”
“That is your theory, but you may be wrong.”
“Of course—I am not infallible.”
The cab stopped suddenly. We had reached Mabledon Place, where the man had orders to pull up. We got out and Dorcas gave him instructions to wait for us where he was, saying we might be a couple of hours or more.
Taking the black bag with us, we made our way towards the Crescent, which was quite deserted. Dorcas took her goloshes out of the bag and put them on, and handed me mine, just as we got close to the house. Glancing round to see no one was about, she went noiselessly up the steps and tried the latchkeys. The first did not fit. It was probably the key of Berkeley Square. The second, to our intense relief, fitted perfectly. In a moment we were inside the hall and had closed the door noiselessly behind us.
Dorcas, taking the dark lantern from her belt, struck a silent match and lighted the wick.
The hall was bare, the stairs were uncarpeted, the whole atmosphere of the house suggested that it was uninhabited.
The keys were on the outside of the doors of the two rooms on the ground floor.
We opened the door of the front parlour. It was quite bare.
Dorcas looked about it in every direction.
“Then she turned the tap of the gas on. There was no sound. Gas cut off and meter taken away when last tenant left,” said Dorcas. “The occupant must have used candles or a lamp.”
“There’s nothing in that,” I said. “A good many people prefer them.”
“Quite so. I hope he used candles. But let us have a peep at the next room.”
Dorcas went first and opened the door of the back parlour.
The room was empty.
Dorcas looked carefully round it, then turned the light of the bull’s-eye to the floor. Suddenly she stooped down.
“He’s used this room,” she said; “see, here is the tallow trail.”
She pointed to some small blobs of tallow grease near the doors of a cupboard, which was in one corner of the room.
“He has used candles here,” she said. “The candle has stood some time on the floor and guttered. That was while the person who had been carrying it was busy with both hands inside this cupboard.”
The cupboard was locked, but the lock was a paltry one, and drawing a little instrument from the bag Dorcas soon had it open.
“How odd to take the trouble to lock up such rubbish as this!” exclaimed Dorcas, drawing out a bundle of ragged female clothing.
I stared at the articles as Dorcas held them up.
“Good gracious!” I said. “These are the clothes of some wretched creature who must have been in the last stage of poverty. The dress is ragged and mud-stained, the old red flannel petticoat almost in ribbons, the bonnet battered and black with grease. Faugh! put the things down.”
Dorcas was not inclined to abandon her find so readily, but presently she put the rags slowly back in the cupboard. “I wonder what he’s done with the body?” she said quietly.
I must confess that when Dorcas said that, I had an uncomfortable, creepy sensation. Could it be possible that such a wretched creature as these locked-up rags had once belonged to had been done to death in an empty house by the millionaire of Berkeley Square?
Dorcas must have divined my thoughts. “Are you wondering if the body of the woman who wore these things is concealed on the premises?” she said.
“Something of the sort was in my mind.”
“And I don’t know what to think,” said Dorcas. “If the body is buried, why on earth were not these accusing rags buried with it?”
We went downstairs, and as we walked through the silent, deserted passages of the basement, I felt suspiciously uncomfortable. A rat ran squeaking behind the wainscot, and I am ashamed to say that in my overwrought nervous condition I couldn’t help giving a little cry of alarm.
I tried to excuse my cowardice to Dorcas, but she stopped me.
“Don’t apologise,” she said. “I am a great deal more afraid of rats than I am of human beings.”
We had passed into the back kitchen or scullery.
“He has been here,” she said.
“How do you know?”
“By the tallow trail. The guttering candle has left its traces here.”
She pointed out three blobs of tallow on the edge of the sink, and turned the light of the bull’s-eye full on the trap. Then she passed her hand carefully over the surface and drew it away. A few exceedingly small damp atoms of pulpy water adhered to her palm. Dorcas examined the atoms carefully. “Probably red on one side and white on the other,” she said. “I wonder where the bottles are?”
“What bottles?”
There were two short wooden shelves on each side of the sink. From the one on the left-hand side Dorcas took a chisel. It was evidently new, by the handle, but the edge was slightly rusty.
“The bottles that the labels have been scraped from with this chisel,” she said. “The labels have been damped at the sink. It is the wet on the label that has rusted the chisel.”
Suddenly she stooped down, and let the lantern flash round the room. Something among some rubbish in one corner attracted her attention. It was a small empty bottle, about the size of the bottles in which chemists sell toothache tincture. She picked the bottle up and examined it carefully.
“It has been washed out,” she said, “and there is nothing to tell us what it contained.”
“Does it matter?” I exclaimed. “It is hardly likely that Mr. Judkins Barraclough came here to wash bottles. That may have been done by the former tenants.”
“No, bottles have been scraped here recently. Fragments of the pulped paper are still in the sink, and that chisel is probably one of the tools that the Indian gentleman ordered from the ironmonger’s.”
“Well, whatever the bottle contained we can’t find it out here,” I said.
“No, let’s go into the front kitchen.”
In the front kitchen there were two cupboards and a kitchen dresser. The cupboards were not quite empty—on one shelf was a packet of coffee and a bag of sugar. On the kitchen dresser was a brown paper package open at one end. It contained eleven boxes of ordinary matches—the twelfth half empty, was lying on one of the dresser shelves.
“The coffee bothers me,” said Dorcas, “but the matches show that this is where the bottle washer lighted his candles of an evening. The candles themselves can’t be far off.”
She looked at the dresser drawers. They had round wooden painted handles. She turned the light of the bull’s-eye on to each handle. Then she touched the handle of the top left-hand drawer.
“This is one he uses,” she said.
“How can you tell that?” I said, gazing curiously on the handle, and failing to see any indication which could have guided Dorcas in her selection.
“Look at this handle carefully,” she said, “and you will see a tiny atom of paper still adhering to it. The person who washed bottles has come from the sink with a wet hand and opened that drawer. A scrap of the label has adhered to his hand and come off on the drawer handle, as he grasped it to pull it open. And now I am sure that the person who washed the bottles and opened this drawer was Mr. Judkins Barraclough.”
I stared at Dorcas in amazement. “How can the drawer handle tell you that?” I exclaimed.
“You remember that Barraclough’s right arm was evidently too painful to use, and he was using his left the night we saw him get out of the cab. Well, the rusty chisel was thrown after use on the left-hand side of the sink, and here the drawer has been pulled open with the left hand.”
“Surely a left hand doesn’t mark itself on a drawer-handle.”
“No, but this drawer stuck and was difficult to open. The person trying it rested one hand—a wet and dirty one—on the dresser. See, here are five dirty finger-marks on the right-hand side of the drawer.”
I looked where Dorcas had pointed, and indications were undoubtedly there. Dorcas had some difficulty in pulling the drawer open, and had to rest her own hand on the dresser. She tried with her left hand, and her right hand then fell exactly on the finger-marks.
When the drawer at last yielded we looked eagerly inside it. There were two packets of common candles and back in the corner of the drawer half-a-dozen small bottles similar to the one we had found empty in the sink.
Dorcas drew them out and examined them carefully. “All red labels, you see, with ‘Poison’ printed on them, ‘Hydrate of Chloral’ written above. They have all been purchased from different chemists—though one doesn’t have to sign for chloral. Mr. Judkins Barraclough is using chloral for some purpose in this house, and after each bottle is used here moves the label.”
“Why should he do that?”
“Well, he may not think it wise to leave empty labelled chloral bottles about. He is a cunning man, and is guarding against contingencies.”
“But what can he be doing with chloral here—in an empty house?”
“We may find out before we leave it. At any rate, let us see if he uses any of the upper rooms.”
“We haven’t searched the coal cellar yet,” I said, suddenly recollecting the Euston-square mystery, and the discovery of the corpse of the poor “Canterbury Belle.”
“To get to the coal cellar you have to go out into the area in these houses,” replied Dorcas. “He wouldn’t do that.”
“The wine cellar, then?”
Dorcas shook her head. “I looked at the door of that as we came by. It was ajar. If there was anything to conceal there it would be shut and locked.”
“But the cases of brandy——”
“May be there—we’ll go and see.”
The wine-cellar was small and filled with old rubbish evidently left behind by the last tenants.
But the brandy cases were there. One was opened and the lid off. There were only six bottles left. The straw envelopes of the other six lay on the floor.
“Where are the empty bottles?” I said. “We ought to look for them.”
“Yes—that is what we will do next. I have an idea they are upstairs.”
“Why?”
“As we came down the kitchen stairs I noticed a short straw lying on one of them. When the bottle was being taken out of the straw envelope in the cellar a loose straw or two caught on the clothes of the person handling it. As he went up the stairs the straw became disengaged by the action of walking and fell. We’ve searched the parlours carefully—now let us go upstairs to the first floor.”
There were two doors on the first floor. We tried the front room one first and found it unlocked and the room quite empty.
“Now for the back room,” said Dorcas.
We went out on to the landing and tried the backroom door. It was locked.
“If there is anything more to be found it will be here,” exclaimed Dorcas, her face, which had been pale until now, suddenly flushing with excitement.
“What can we do?—burst the door open?”
“Yes—I came prepared for emergencies.”
Dorcas produced an instrument which is technically known as a “jemmy” from her bag and handed it to me.
I had once burst open a door, but I was not a skilled workman, and so it was a good ten minutes before the door yielded, bursting open with a crash and tearing away with it a portion of the lock, which fell with a clatter to the ground.
As the door fell it seemed as though there was an echo of it downstairs.
“What’s that?” exclaimed Dorcas. “It sounded like the front door shutting.”
“Nonsense,” I said, “it’s the echo—the house is empty.”
Dorcas had turned her lantern on the staircase, and was peering over the balustrade. All was silent as the grave.
“I must have been mistaken,” she said. “Good heavens, there can’t have been someone in the house all this time—someone who has slipped past us and escaped. If I thought that I——”
She paused and uttered a little cry. She had turned the lantern right round, and it lit up the room, the door of which we had just burst open.
As the light of the bull’s-eye dimly illuminated the apartment an extraordinary sight met our eyes. The centre of the room was entirely occupied by what looked like a huge wire cage. Wire netting nearly six feet high was stretched from side to side of the room on ropes which were fastened in the walls by iron rings. Across the inside, at the top and bottom of what was practically a wired-off passage was wire netting of the same height securely fixed and lashed firmly in its place, and to prevent the occupant of the cage from climbing over the top it was roofed in with a double thickness of coarse sacking securely fastened to the wirework. The floor was covered with indiarubber mats nailed down to keep them in place.
“Good gracious!” I exclaimed. “Is it a menagerie, or a cage for some wild animal, or what?”
Suddenly Dorcas grasped my arm, and put her finger to her lips. In one corner of the cage, on a rug, covered over by a scarlet blanket, lay a woman.
“She must be dead!” I exclaimed, starting back with horror. “Only a corpse could sleep through the crash of that door.”
“No,” said Dorcas, creeping up close to the wire netting. “She is breathing—see, the blanket rises and falls.”
“What can it mean? Is she some mad woman whom Barraclough is keeping here?”
Dorcas did not answer. She was gazing earnestly at the face of the sleeper. It was the face of a woman of about forty—a dark woman who must once have been strikingly handsome. Dorcas let the light fall upon it for a minute or two, but the sleeper made no movement. Her breathing was strangely heavy. Suddenly Dorcas touched my arm and pointed to an open bottle which stood near the rug.
“Brandy,” she said. “That’s where the six bottles have gone to.”
“Is she in a drunken stupor, do you think?”
“Drunken, perhaps, is hardly the word,” replied Dorcas; “you forget the empty chloral bottles.”
“You think that the chloral is for her?”
“Yes; this woman is under the influence of it now. A man or a woman who takes chloral would sleep through an earthquake. A drunken man or woman would certainly have been startled by the noise we made just now. In some mysterious way she has been got into this house, and is being kept here a prisoner by Mr. Judkins Barraclough. He probably dissolves a dose of chloral and puts it into each bottle of brandy he brings to the poor creature.”
“What can be the object of that?”
“The chloral is given, I take it, with the same object as this wire cage has been built around her (probably while she lay helpless and insensible under the influence of the drug)—to keep her from making a noise, shouting or beating against the walls, or going to the windows and attracting the attention of the neighbours. The man who has got this woman in his power comes here daily, but probably only after dark, and has to leave her alone at night and for many hours during the day. She is caged in to keep her from beating the walls, and she is dosed with chloral in order to keep her from moving about or making the slightest noise.”
“And the object?”
“To let her kill herself with the brandy.”
“Then why the chloral?—that sends her to sleep and prevents her from drinking as much as she would.”
“If she were left with the brandy alone she would become violent and be able to shriek. She might in an access of delirium tear down her cage and get free. No—kept here without food and with a plentiful supply of brandy she will die slowly of alcoholic poisoning. But she must die quietly—hence the chloral.”
“What an infamous villain!”
“Yes, and a desperate one. This is the woman who bit him that night. There must have been a violent struggle after he got her here. This woman is probably his first wife. There cannot be any other reason for Mr. Barraclough’s mysterious proceedings.”
“But now we have found her,” I exclaimed, “what do you propose to do?”
“We must break through this netting, and try and rouse her first,” replied Dorcas, “Her gaoler doesn’t go near her—see here is where he evidently picks up the corner of the network to put in the bottles of drugged brandy. The nail has been pulled out and hammered in again several times.”
Dorcas went to the shutters, which were closed, and wrenched off the iron bar. “Take this,” she said, “and break the netting down sufficiently for us to get in. It will make less noise than forcing out the staples.”
I took the bar, and several violent blows broke the lower portion of the cage loose from the fastenings in the floor. Then I pulled it up sufficiently high to allow Dorcas to crawl underneath.
“This must be the woman whose clothes are downstairs in the cupboard,” I said. “Fancy a woman reduced to such poverty as that—the wife of a millionaire. Why, she must have been a homeless outcast.”
Dorcas had gone to the sleeping woman’s side. Gently she turned down the top of the scarlet blanket. Then she started back in astonishment. The woman was fully dressed in clothes of the best quality.
Dorcas lifted the almost lifeless arm from the sleepers side and pointed to her fingers. On one was a worn wedding-ring, and above it a diamond ring. A gold bangle set with jewels was round her wrist.
“What does it mean?” said Dorcas, knitting her brows. “The rags concealed in the cupboard downstairs never belonged to this woman.”
At that moment a church clock struck five.
“Quick!” cried Dorcas, thrusting Mr. Barraclough’s keys through the broken wirework into my hand. “You must go. The cab will be waiting in Mabledon Place. Go to Berkeley Square at once and put the keys in the letter-box. I wouldn’t have that man suspect anything for all the money in the world!”
“And you?”
“I shall stay here. Come back as soon as you can. Ring the bell gently and I will let you in. Ah! wait a moment!”
She tore a leaf from her note-book, and scribbled something in lead pencil, then folded it, and gave it to me. It was addressed to a doctor in Endsleigh Gardens.
“It’s close by; call there on your way. Ring the doctor up and give him this. He is an old friend of mine and will come at once. Then go to Berkeley Square as fast as the horse can take you, and put the keys in the letter-box.”
There was nothing for it but to obey. When I closed the door of No. — softly behind me it was broad daylight, and the birds were singing gaily in the trees.
As I reached the pavement I involuntarily turned back to take a parting glance at the closely shuttered house in which I had left Dorcas Dene alone with the caged woman.
As I did so I suddenly became aware of something which rooted me to the spot, and paralysed me beyond the power of uttering a cry.
Crouching in the shadow of the next doorway was a dark man with white hair, a closely-cropped white moustache, and gold spectacles.
I STOOD for a moment paralysed. Could it be possible that standing there watching me as I emerged from the house in Burton Crescent was the mysterious Indian whom Dorcas Dene believed to be no other than Judkins Barraclough himself? Judkins Barraclough in a false wig and a moustache and a pair of gold spectacles.
Then suddenly I recollected the sound we had heard as of the shutting of the front door. Someone had been in the house at the time. Someone had slipped past when we were in the front room, and as the door of the room in which the drugged woman lay yielded with a crash, that person had crept out into the street.
And that person was the man with the white hair and moustache, whose dark eyes were gleaming at me through his gold spectacles now.
What was I to do? To seize the Indian and call for the police? I hesitated to do that without Dorcas’s authority. I went up the step of No. —, and rang the bell gently.
In a moment I heard Dorcas’s voice saying, “Who’s there?”
“Open quickly!” I exclaimed. “It is I.”
The door opened and I dashed into the hall and gasped out that the Indian was there—outside—what should I do?
Dorcas frowned. “There was someone in the house, then!” she exclaimed. “Oh, if I had only known it! But go to the doctor at once, and then get back with those keys.”
“And the Indian?”
“Will probably get at Judkins Barraclough at the earliest opportunity and warn him.”
“You don’t think the Indian is Barraclough disguised, now, then?”
“No—that’s impossible. I’ve been off the track a little, but I’m on it right enough now. Get away now, every minute is of value.”
Dorcas shut the door and I went down the steps again.
I looked about for the Indian. While I was talking to Dorcas he had slipped out of the doorway and disappeared. I found the cab waiting, drove to the doctor in Endsleigh Gardens, left the note, and then told the cabman to drive me with all speed to the top of Berkeley Square.
It was half-past five when I slipped the keys quietly into Mr. Barraclough’s letter box. It was six o’clock when the cab stopped again in Mabledon Place.
There were one or two people passing through the Crescent—people on the way to work. Outside some of the houses sleepy-looking girls were shaking the mats and beginning the household duties of the day.
A policeman passed me and bade me good morning. I returned his salutation and walked past No. — to the end of the Crescent. When I looked round he had sauntered away, and I returned and rang the bell.
“Dorcas greeted me with a smile. Come along,” she said, “come and have some coffee, for you must be faint.”
“But the woman?”
“The doctor is with her and is bringing her round. I hope presently she will be able to give us a little information.”
Dorcas led the way and I followed her. To my astonishment, instead of going downstairs, where I presumed the coffee would be waiting for us, she went upstairs to the second floor.
Dorcas opened a door and I found myself in a little back room that had evidently been inhabited. On a small Oriental table was a French coffee-making machine, and underneath it a spirit lamp. In the corner lay a couple of Oriental rugs, and on a small table by the side of it a box of cigarettes.
“I’ve taken the liberty of using Mr. Aleem Mohammed’s private apartments,” said Dorcas. “He evidently furnished them for himself before he made his preparations for a lady visitor below.”
“Then he was here all the time?”
“I don’t think he was here that night when we nearly knocked the neighbourhood up. But he probably came in later, and he was certainly here last night when we were examining the house. It was only when we began to make a noise that he became aware of our presence. When he heard the locked door of the room on the first floor go, he let himself out, and kept watch from the outside.”
“Why?”
“Probably to see what we were going to do.”
“But Judkins Barraclough we know has the key of the house. How did the Indian get in?”
“That’s simple,” replied Dorcas. “They had a latchkey each.”
I flung myself down on the rugs and drank the coffee which Dorcas had made.
The coffee revived my drooping energies, and set my brain working again. If the Indian was living in the house and had escaped, what was there to prove that not he but Barraclough was the person who was helping the unhappy creature downstairs to her death?
I asked Dorcas.
“There is no doubt in my mind that Barraclough is the principal, and the Indian only an accomplice,” she replied. “But we’re not going to let the Indian escape.”
“We have done so.”
“No. Scotland Yard has him in hand.”
“Scotland Yard?”
“Yes; directly the doctor came, which was almost immediately after he received my note, I went out and sent a message. Hark! there’s a knock at the door.”
Dorcas ran downstairs bidding me follow her. She opened the front door, and a handsome, foreign-looking dark man, of about eight-and-thirty, stepped into the hall, and politely raised his hat.
“Ah, Mr. Stromberg, I am glad,” exclaimed Dorcas, shaking hands heartily with the new arrival. “I was wondering who would be on duty. Allow me to introduce my friend Mr. Saxon. Mr. Saxon, this is Inspector Stromberg, of the Criminal Investigation Department.”
The inspector bowed and smiled.
“I am always delighted to work with the famous Dorcas Dene,” he said to me. “My only regret is that she is not one of us.”
Then turning to Dorcas, he said, “And now what is the mystery we are to have the pleasure of unravelling together this time?”
“The mystery is, I hope, already unravelled,” replied Dorcas demurely, “but I must not go any farther with it. It is now a matter for the police.”
“And the particulars?”
Clearly and concisely Dorcas gave the famous detective officer the details of the great Barraclough mystery. When she had finished the Inspector rose and grasped Dorcas warmly by the hand. My dear Mrs. Dene,” he said, “you have done wonders. Of course, I must take charge of the case now as it is practically an attempt to murder, but I shall do nothing without your approval. The woman is in charge of the doctor still, I presume?”
“Yes. He will call me as soon as she is able to converse coherently.”
“And Mr. Judkins Barraclough—what is your idea of the time to make the arrest?”
“To-night.”
“To-night?—but why give him so much law as that?”
“I am very much interested in some ragged feminine garments concealed in a cupboard here. I want to find out what object Barraclough can have in keeping them there.” She added something in a whisper that I was evidently not intended to hear. The great man looked grave.
“It is a desperate thing to do,” he said.
“I am afraid that unless we find the Indian and get him to turn Queen’s Evidence, the mere fact of Barraclough having a latchkey will not bring the attempted murder home to him. I like to clear up my cases thoroughly, and I confess that these pauper rags completely baffle me. By the bye, you acted on my information with regard to the Indian?”
“Yes,” said the Inspector. “What was your idea in asking me to have enquiries made at the post-offices you named?”
“They are the only ones within reasonable distance which are opened before eight in the morning. My idea was that the man would go to a telegraph office and send a warning wire to Barraclough. You sent a messenger to the receiving offices near Berkeley Square?”
“Yes; no telegram will be delivered to Barraclough without our knowledge of its contents.”
“That’s all right,” said Dorcas, “and of course, by some unaccountable accident, that telegram won’t reach Mr. Barraclough.”
Inspector Stromberg shrugged his shoulders.
“The Post Office is a sacred institution in this country,” he said. “The police do not tamper with letters and telegrams.”
“No,” said Dorcas, sweetly, “but sometimes accidents happen—a careless clerk, for instance, puts a wrong address on the envelope and that causes somebody else to open the telegram after the boy has gone.”
The Inspector gazed at Dorcas admiringly.
A door on the first floor opened, and a voice called “Mrs. Dene.”
Dorcas ran upstairs and left the Inspector and myself together.
“Presently she came down again. The woman is better and able to talk. But the doctor says that for many reasons it would be as well to get her to a hospital at once.”
“Very well,” said the Inspector. “Perhaps your friend will go and get a four-wheel cab?”
I took the hint and went out. There were plenty of cabs near St. Pancras, and I was back with one in about five minutes.
Wrapped in a blanket and a rug, which we brought down from the Indian’s room, the doctor, myself, and Stromberg carried the woman, rescued from a lingering death, out of the house, and got her into the cab without attracting the attention of anyone but a small boy who was delivering newspapers. The doctor drove away with his patient, and we returned to the house, Dorcas taking the Inspector upstairs to see the cage and the Indian’s apartment.
At a quarter to eight a man arrived to see Stromberg and made a communication to him.
“That’s all right,” exclaimed the Inspector, and calling Dorcas, he told her that the Indian had just sent a telegram to Barraclough.
“It won’t be delivered till ten minutes past eight. I’ll go up to the receiving office and arrange for that mistake in the address. I shall be there by eight o’clock, which is the time they open. Stop here till I come back.”
In an hour Stromberg returned radiant. He had the telegram:
“Don’t go house. See me at once old place. Important M.”
“That’s all right,” said Dorcas. “Now I want to send another telegram to Barraclough.” Dorcas tore a leaf from her pocket-book and wrote: “All over. Come Crescent, ten to-night.”
“I understand,” said the Inspector. “I’ll send it at once. In the meantime the men who are trying to track the Indian, will, I hope, succeed. They will bring him straight to the Yard to me. You had better be there this afternoon at three. There’s only one thing that may upset your plan. Suppose Barraclough comes here this afternoon, lets himself in, and finds the woman gone.”
“I’ve thought of that,” said Dorcas. “But is he likely to in the daylight? It is easy to make him alter his determination if he does. Put a special policeman on with instructions to keep his eye on the door, and directly he sees anyone going towards it let him stroll up. Barraclough won’t risk letting himself in with a latchkey under the eyes of a policeman. He’ll go away again and come after dark and then we shall be ready for him.”
“You’re right,” said the Inspector. “I’ll have the policeman put on. But there’s one thing more—we know what we want Barraclough to do, but how about the broken-open door—that will rouse his suspicions at once?”
“Send some workmen you can trust to put it right again. He’s not likely to examine it very closely.”
“I’ll send the workmen at once. You’ll have to stay and let them in. A couple of hours will see them through. But who is going to stay here to let us in?”
“You’ll want help to-night,” replied Dorcas. “Send a plain clothes officer with the men—he can stay on in charge of the house.”
“Yes, that will do—and now—Au revoir.”
“What is this mysterious plan of yours?” I said to Dorcas, when the Inspector had gone.
“Oh, I only wanted to see what Barraclough wanted with those old clothes. Now, I’m going to lie down for an hour in the Indian’s room—I’m tired. You had better go home.”
“Aren’t you going to let me see the end of it?” I asked eagerly.
“Certainly, if you wish it. I shall be back here at seven o’clock—come then.”
At seven o’clock that evening, I rang cautiously at No. —, Burton Crescent. The Inspector opened the door to me.
“Mrs. Dene’s upstairs,” he said, “front room, first floor.”
I went upstairs, found the door open and started back in astonishment. Dorcas was there, sitting on one of the small tables which had been brought down from the Indian’s room, and in the corner sitting cross-legged and smoking a cigarette was Mr. Aleem Mohammed. Near him was a man, who was, I concluded, the plain clothes officer from the Yard.
Dorcas beckoned me out on to the landing.
“You see, we’ve got Aleem,” she said.
“Yes, how did you manage it?”
“The Yard promptly ran him down and brought him to Stromberg. The man, seeing his game is up, has given us every information. Stromberg has promised that if he helps us to-night he may get off lightly.”
“What has he told you?”
“All we wanted to know. He is a man whom Barraclough Employed in South America, and brought over here with him when he came. Barraclough made wealth rapidly in South America, and in fact accumulated a vast fortune equal to two or three millions of money, but he made the foundation of that fortune by unscrupulous means. Once in possession of money his natural ability enabled him to conduct his operations with skill, and his later successes were legitimate enough. But Aleem knew him in his shady days, so he tells us, and he didn’t mean to be left in South America.
“About a fortnight ago Barraclough went to him—he had a little flat in Great Russell Street—and offered him £5,000 if he would consent to get a house and take charge of a woman who was drinking herself to death. The rest you know. Aleem swears that he only got the house and the things Barraclough ordered him to, and that he has never interfered in any way with the woman.”
“But who got her here?”
“Barraclough himself—but that we have learned from the woman herself. Stromberg interviewed her at the hospital. Her name is Judkins. Twenty years ago she married John Judkins, a clever but improvident clerk in the employ of a firm of financiers in the City. Judkins got into debt and difficulties and one day disappeared, and she never saw him again until lately.
“She managed as well as she could for herself, and being a handsome woman did fairly well. One evening some weeks ago she was at the Empire when she heard a gentleman behind her call out ‘Hullo, Judkins!’ She turned and saw two gentlemen in evening dress greet each other. The name Judkins caused her eagerly to scrutinise the features of the elder of them. She recognised him in a moment as her husband——”
I interrupted Dorcas with a remark which rose to my lips:
“Why did the gentleman call Mr. Barraclough ‘Judkins’?”
“Most of his friends clip his double barrel name to that, I expect. But let me go on. After the two gentlemen separated, Mrs. Judkins followed her husband until he was in a quiet part of the promenade and then touched him on the shoulder and said ‘Jack!’
“Judkins started and turned as pale as his bronzed face would let him. Then he took her arm and they went out into Leicester Square together. He explained that he had intended to write to his wife after he decamped, but he had got into fresh trouble and had to clear out of the country. He had come back some years ago intending to find his wife, but he was in with a bad set and for his share in a fraud he had been sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment. He had been out for a year, but he was still getting his living by his wits.
“He had promised her he would do what he could for her, and gave her £50 in bank-notes. He met her by appointment some time after that, and made her a present of some jewellery and quite won her confidence, only he was always careful to warn her that he was still what the fraternity call ‘crook,’ and the police were keeping an eye on him.
“One day he said he should have to lie quiet for a bit, and he told her to come to him where he was staying at No.—, Burton Crescent. She was to come at midnight. He would, he hoped, have some money and jewellery to give her which he wanted her to take care of while he was away.
“The woman fell into the trap. At midnight her husband let her in. The house was in darkness. He took her by the hand and led her upstairs.
“Suddenly the idea came to her that all was not right—she grew nervous and tried to drag her hand away. The man seized her forcibly and thrust his arm across her mouth to stop her screaming. She struggled and bit fiercely into his flesh. He uttered a cry of rage, and thrust his pocket-handkerchief into her mouth. Then he held something to her nose, which she supposed must have been chloroform, for she remembers no more. When she came to herself she felt weak and unable to move, and was lying in a kind of cage in one of the rooms. She saw brandy by her side and she drank. The brandy was all she had, and she drank to drive away her terror. She confesses that she had been a hard drinker, and that on several occasions when Judkins met her she had been drinking heavily. It was probably this discovery which gave him the idea of letting her drink herself to death quietly, using the chloral as a means to an end.”
“And now?” I said as Dorcas finished her narrative.
“And now she is getting round——Well?”
The last word was addressed to Inspector Stromberg, who had come upstairs.
“Everything is ready,” he said. “I’ve two men posted out of sight in front, and there’s no chance of an escape at the back.”
We went into the room all three together.
“Now,” said the Inspector to the Indian, “you quite understand what you are to do?”
“Yes, I understand,” replied Mr. Mohammed with a sickly grin.
“And remember you can’t save him. If you warn him and he tries to bolt, my men are outside—so you’ll let him come in and do exactly as he tells you.”
“Yes.”
“Now, once more you are sure you have no idea to whom those old clothes in the cupboard belong, nor why Barraclough brought them here!”
“No; he must have brought them and put them there when I did not see.”
* * *
At ten o’clock there was the sound of a key turning in the lock downstairs. The house was in darkness. In the centre of the first-floor backroom the cage, restored to its former condition, stood as before; only one side had been torn away by Aleem in order that he might ascertain if the woman was really dead. Covered over with a scarlet blanket lay something that looked like a human form. A cloth was flung over the face.
Dorcas and I were sitting with the front room door open when we heard the key. Aleem was on the landing ready to receive his master. Stromberg and the plain-clothes officer were nowhere to be seen.
The Indian had taken down the sacking that formed the roof of the cage, and flung it into the corner. Through the thin partition that separated the back and front rooms two gimlet holes had been bored. Dorcas knelt down and fixed her eyes to these. We could hear every word that was spoken.
Barraclough called out softly, “Aleem, Aleem, are you there?”
“I am here,” answered Aleem. “Come up—all is over.”
Barraclough came quickly up the stairs. Aleem opened the door of the backroom. “She died this morning early. Now, what are we to do? Bury her here?”
“No; it would look like murder if the body was ever found, and one never knows. She’ll be much safer buried in a cemetery.”
“In a cemetery?”
“Yes—after an inquest. We had better let the law establish our innocence in case of accidents. It’s always safer to do the bold thing, Aleem—I’ve always found it so. Take this key, go downstairs, unlock the cupboard in the parlour, and bring me up a bundle of old clothes you’ll find there—and bring a light.”
I almost thought I heard Dorcas give a sigh of relief. She had forgotten that she had burst the cupboard open. Had Barraclough gone himself he would have noticed it.
Aleem went downstairs, and Dorcas rose quietly, went out softly, and stopped him as he came up. “Leave the door ajar,” she said under her breath. Aleem evidently obeyed, for she remained outside.
I took her vacant place at the peepholes.
“Now,” said Barraclough, as the Indian handed him the bundle and put the candle on the floor, “you’re quicker fingered than I am—go in and strip the body.”
The Indian hesitated. “Why should I do this?”
“Why? Because you’re going to have five thousand pounds. I’m not going to pay you and do the dirty work myself. Off with every rag—the jewels you can keep for yourself.”
Still the Indian hesitated. “But why should we strip the body?” he said.
“Why?—to put those rags on it.”
“And then?”
“Well, then all we’ve got to do is to wait till there isn’t a soul about and then pop the body outside on the doorstep.”
“But the police—they will make inquiries.”
The police will do nothing of the sort. A wretched, ragged outcast will be found on a doorstep dead. She will be taken to the mortuary and a post-mortem made. The cause of death will be found to be starvation and drink, and the body will be buried. The law doesn’t trouble itself about paupers found dead on a doorstep.”
“Ah!” exclaimed Aleem, “that is what you wanted with those rags then?”
“Yes. Now, then, let me see what sort of a lady’s maid you make.”
At that moment the corpse moved slightly under the scarlet blanket.
Barraclough sprang back. “You fool—she’s not dead!” he cried.
“No,” exclaimed Inspector Stromberg, leaping up and flinging the blanket from him. “We’re all very much alive.”
At the same moment the sacking in the corner lifted up, and the plain-clothes officer slipped from under it, and Dorcas, pushing the door open, ran into the room.
“Mr. Barraclough,” said the Inspector. “I arrest you on a charge of attempting to murder your wife, Marian Judkins.”
The millionaire grasped the situation in a moment.
“You infernal traitor!” he hissed at the mild Mohammed. “I’ll—I’ll——”
In a moment the two officers had him by the arms.
“Come along,” said the Inspector. “We’ll get a four-wheeler to the door. I presume you haven’t got your brougham waiting outside?”
As the men went downstairs with their prisoner, Dorcas nodded pleasantly to the Inspector.
“Thank you so much,” she said, “for helping me to find out what those clothes in the cupboard were for.” Then she turned to me and said, “You’ve had twenty-four hours’ excitement straight off—you must be tired. Go home and go to bed.”
“And you?”
“I’m going to Berkeley Square to tell the lady this scoundrel married that she is a free woman, and to offer her my sincere congratulations.”