“IT is impossible,” said Roderick Aylmer to himself, looking out through the great bow window that bulged from the front of Duncombe House on the wide gravel sweep, as a bicycle with swift smooth curve glided into view, and a dainty little lady leaping from the machine went up the broad stone steps as lightly as a bird.
“That schoolgirl a Cambridge wrangler and a Doctor of Medicine! It’s too absurd,” Roderick Aylmer murmured, more and more amazed.
There was certainly nothing of the New Woman, or for that matter of the old, about the winsome figure that stood at the top of the great stone steps, all alive and alert, preening herself like a bird in the sunshine. A pleased face and a pleasant she showed; the face of a bright schoolgirl out for a holiday, brimming over with excitement. An audacious toque, with a brace of scarlet feathers stuck in it, was perched amongst thick coiled hair that had the ripple and lustre of a brown trout stream in the sunshine. The short skirt of her tailor made dress twitched by the light wind showed slim ankles and neat feet cased in tan cycling-shoes.
She passed under the Doric pillars and porch of the entrance, and the electric bell tinkled.
“For Mr. Aylmer,” she said to the big footman who swung the door open, and she put a visiting card into his hand with the name “Miss Dora Myrl.”
Down the broad stairs and square cool hall with its chessboard pavement of white and black marble, came Mr. Roderick Aylmer himself with outstretched hand.
“You are very welcome,” he said. She peered up for a moment with keen bird-like look into the honest handsome face, then she put her little hand with frank firm clasp in his big one.
“I have already written to you, Miss Myrl,” he began abruptly when they were together in the drawing-room, “my wife is very ill and worn to a shadow, though the doctors can make nothing of her illness. She had a bad fever when our only boy was born twelve years ago, and she has never quite recovered. Most gentle always: too gentle I often think; she is never angry, never smiles. Though she loves our boy with her whole heart, she seems saddest when he is with her. Her melancholy grows deeper day by day. It was good of you to come, for we are very dull here. If you can take her out of herself and cheer her up a little, I will be for ever grateful. Pardon me for a moment, I’ll tell her you are here, she will be delighted.”
But the first glance at the handsome shadowy pale-faced woman that came slowly into the room leaning on her husband’s arm, told Dora Myrl that her hostess was not delighted to see her, but frightened; though she hid her fright in the welcome of a gracious lady.
With a single glance the keen-eyed little woman divined a hidden fear in that sad face, and her pity took practical shape in the thought: “I will win her confidence and help her if I can.”
A fortnight went swiftly by in Duncombe House. To the anxious master there was new life in the companionship of the gay little lady, who tested his skill to the utmost at tennis or croquet on the smooth green lawn framed by high unbroken walls of darker verdure, or at billiards in the great cool oak-panelled room that absorbed the glow of the electric lights.
To the gentle sad-eyed lady she was a not less congenial companion. A sympathy went out from her, even when they sat in silence, that was comforting to the sorely tried heart. In every word and act there was cheerfulness and comfort, and willingness to help. But their long talks together, though they often lapsed into affectionate endearments, and more than once, as Dora instinctively felt, came close to the hidden trouble, had not touched it yet.
The two women sat together through one hot noon in Alice Aylmer’s boudoir, whose windows looked out on green shade and sparkling water. Though one read, and the other worked in silence at some vague embroidery which was an excuse for idleness, there was a pleasant sense of companionship between them.
While her eyes gathered the letters and words of her book and the main trend of the story, Dora’s curious restless thoughts were busy with the secret which she vaguely felt like a pressure in the silent room.
“Confidence begets confidence,” she thought. “I will speak to her about myself.”
“Would you care at all to hear, Alice,” she began abruptly, “what I was and what I did before I came here?”
“If you care to tell me, dear; if not, it is enough for me that you came here and that you are my friend.”
“I think friends should have no secrets,” with a quick flash of the bright grey eyes. “Yet now that I come to think of it there is very little to tell. My father was an old fashioned Cambridge don who married late in life. My mother”—the clear voice faltered and the bright eyes dimmed—“I never saw. She gave her life for mine. My father grieved at first that I was not a boy. Afterwards, I think, he liked me better as I was. It was his whole ambition that I should be a lady and a scholar. He waited in this world three months beyond his time, so the doctors said, to see me a Cambridge Wrangler; then he died content, leaving me alone at the age of eighteen with two hundred pounds and my wranglership for a fortune. I had no taste for the humdrum life of schoolteaching, so I spent the little money I had in making myself a doctor. But practice didn’t come, and I couldn’t and wouldn’t wait for it. Within the last year I have been a telegraph girl, a telephone girl, a lady journalist. I liked the last best. But I have not found my vocation yet, for I am an impatient little busybody, brimful of restless curiosity.
“Your husband’s advertisement in the paper caught me. There was something queer about the demand for a ‘lively companion’ that appealed to my curiosity, so I threw up my other work and came on here.”
“And I hope you are glad you came?”
“Very glad, but——”
A sharp knock cut her answer off short in the middle.
“Mrs. Caruth,” said the maid at the door.
“Tell her to come up.”
But the words were hardly spoken when Mrs. Caruth herself pushed rudely past the servant into the room.
A squarely built woman was Mrs. Caruth, with dark eyes that flashed under cleanly curved eyebrows, and a very resolute mouth and chin; a strong face, almost handsome, but the face of a woman to be feared, not trusted. So thought quick-eyed Dora Myrl as she glanced from Mrs. Caruth to Mrs. Aylmer, who flushed and grew pale again, and quivered like a leaf in the wind at the sight of the intruder. Dora saw her colour come and go and her limbs tremble, and like a skilled physician searching a patient’s body with a stethoscope when he finds the lurking disease at last, she murmured to herself, “The trouble is here.”
Meanwhile Mrs. Caruth looked with steady insolence at Dora for a moment or two, with a look which said as plainly as look could, “What business have you here?”
Stubborn Dora would have rebelled against the woman’s insolence, but there was a meek entreaty in Mrs. Aylmer’s eyes that quite subdued her.
“I have some letters to write, Alice, if you don’t mind,” she said.
As she stepped quickly from the room, she heard the door closed sharply behind her and the key turned in the lock. For nearly an hour Dora waited. She could hear from time to time through the closed door the tones of an angry dominating voice and the noise of weeping.
At last Mrs. Caruth came out with a look of triumph on her evil face, and passed through without a glance where Dora sat. In the inner room Mrs. Aylmer was lying full length on a sofa, her face buried in a velvet cushion, her whole body shaken by a storm of sobs.
It was part of the girl’s nature—a vice in her nature if you will—that the warm womanly sympathy she felt for the frail sufferer was shot through by the quick thought, “Now is the time to surprise her secret.”
She sat down beside the sofa and took the limp hand that hung over in both of hers.
“Tell me all about it, Alice.”
She spoke as one speaks to a child, gently yet with authority not to be resisted, and Alice Aylmer, her will enfeebled by grief and fear, answered submissively as a child.
“It was when my boy was born,” she began.
“The boy that is coming home for his holidays tomorrow?”
“Yes—no—oh my God! have a little patience with me, Dora, and I will tell you everything. Don’t speak to me or I shall break down. We had been three years married and we were ever so happy, but all the same I could see my husband was just longing for an heir.
“There were great rejoicings when the boy came at last. But not for long. I was very weak, and my poor baby weaker and frailer still; I could not nurse my firstborn. Oh! you don’t know, Dora, what it is to have your baby come to you with groping little hands and parted lips for food, and send it away empty. Mrs. Caruth had been my maid, but she had married the blacksmith in the village—a drunkard as I heard afterwards—and had a boy of her own the same day that mine was born, so she came and took charge of my Archie. It made me mad to see the pale puny little scrap that never came to me without whining, lie so placidly at her bosom.
“We both grew weaker—baby and I—day by day; I on my baby’s account I do believe. One evening I had fallen into a deep sleep, and when I awoke the room was quite dark, but I could hear the voices of my husband and the doctor talking under their breath.
“‘There is no danger of her,’ I heard the doctor say, and his voice dwelt on the word ‘her’ in a way that made my very heart grow cold. I guessed what was coming.
“‘But the boy, doctor?’ I heard my husband say softly. It was the question I was longing to ask.
“‘Are you strong enough to bear the answer?’ the doctor said.
“‘I am strong enough for anything. Anything is better than this fear.’
“‘Then have done with hope and fear,’ the doctor answered solemnly. ‘The boy cannot live.’
“‘These are cruel words, doctor.’
“‘They are the cruel truth.’
“Oh! my poor husband! A low groan of utter agony broke from his lips. My heart bled for him and I would have cried out, but I heard the doctor’s voice whisper ‘Have courage, man, you will waken her,’ and they both passed softly out together. They did not know, I think, that Mrs. Caruth was in the room. But when the door closed after them, she lit a candle and came quietly to my bedside and looked me in the face.
“‘You heard them,’ she said. ‘Your breathing stopped and I knew you heard them.’
“‘Oh! Martha, it will kill him,’ was all I could get out, ‘it will kill my husband.’
“‘You wish to save him this trouble?’
“‘I would give my life; I would give my soul to save him, but there is no way.’
“‘There is a way; listen quietly till I have my say out whatever you think at first. We must change the babies.’
“Oh! I could never do it,’ I cried
“‘Listen,’ she spoke fiercely. ‘Mine is a splendid boy worth a hundred of your puny things. You will gain by the swop. Your baby will have all the better chance of life with me who can nurse it. If it lives we can change back again. If it dies—don’t shiver like that—you have got to bear it. If it dies your husband will never know, and he will still have a fine handsome heir.’
“I was very weak and she was very strong—is that an excuse for me, I wonder? I agreed to part with my boy for my husband’s sake, and gave her money and jewels and swore her to be good to him.
“‘I will love him as my own,’ she said over and over again.
“I think I must have been a little lightheaded after that, for I kept crying and moaning all day that my child would die. I had a very kind nurse, Dora, Kitty Sullivan was her name, and I think she was an Irishwoman. I know she was a Roman Catholic. She tried hard to comfort me, and she knelt down by the cradle and prayed fervently for the child. I could hear the words ‘Hail Mary, Holy Mary,’ over and over again, till at last I fell off to a kind of doze, but my fear and sorrow never left me even in my sleep.
“Nurse Sullivan went away that evening. Mrs. Caruth was to mind me till the new nurse arrived. She came into the dim room that night with a bundle under her cloak and knelt the cradle, and I did not look, but I knew she was changing the clothes on the two children.
“As she stepped out like a dark shadow through the door, there was a child’s cry in the room as though my baby was crying to me to save him. It went to my heart like a knife. I felt all my life as it were slipping away from me. I thought I was dying and I was horribly frightened of death.
“It was nearly a month, so I was told, before I came back to consciousness again.
“There was light in the room, and my husband and the doctor were looking down on me.
“‘She will do now,’ the doctor said, ‘I always thought she would do, but the boy’s life is a miracle.’
“They brought the baby to my bed, bright and rosy, and I gloried in him.
“Can you believe it, Dora, I had forgotten all about Nurse Caruth and her wicked plan. I thought the child was my own. What folly they talk of a mother’s instinct! That wicked woman’s baby twined itself into the very fibres of my heart. When memory came slowly back to me, though, the knowledge almost broke my heart, but it did not lessen my love.
“I heard that Mrs. Caruth had disappeared, leaving no trace behind her. But in about two years’ time she returned to the village, bringing a boy back with her; my boy; Roderick’s boy: the rightful heir of Duncombe, whom I had robbed of his rights. I have been miserable ever since. I feel I am an unnatural hearted mother, but I could not and I cannot give up the boy I love for my own that I do not love.
“Mrs. Caruth was well content. I gave her money from time to time, and she wanted nothing more. But the boy, my poor wretched boy, fell into evil habits. To-day she came to say he had been caught thieving and had been sent to prison, and that I must get his father to save him or she would tell everything.
“Oh! I am the most miserable woman in God’s earth. What shall I do; what shall I do?”
“You must tell the truth.”
“I cannot; I dare not. It would kill Roderick to know his child was a thief. Oh! I know it is cruel and wicked of me to hate my own child and love another in its place. But I cannot help it. When you see Archie tomorrow you will understand and pity me.”
There was not long to wait.
Next day a dog cart drove from the railway station to the door, and a bright, curly-pated school boy bounded from it like a rubber ball and so up the steps into the arms of Alice Aylmer, who stood waiting for him, flushed and trembling.
“I nearly lost my ‘luck,’ mother,” he broke out before the hugging was half over. “It fell from my chain on the platform and was near going down on the line. You keep it safe until I can have it fastened to my chain again.” He laid a small silver medal on the cabinet beside her.
“Yes, yes; I’ll take care of it for you,” she answered. “Now run away to your room.”
The joy faded from her face as he disappeared, and she turned a look of piteous appeal on Dora.
“What did he mean by his ‘luck’?” said Dora, evading the question in her eyes. She had taken up the lucky medal and was examining it keenly. It was much worn, but she could make out the figure of a woman crowned, with her hands at her sides, and around her specks that looked like stars.
“That’s part of the story,” said Mrs. Aylmer. “I found it tied tight round the baby’s neck with a thin white ribbon. I had to cut the string to get it off. When I asked Mrs. Caruth she seemed confused and denied all knowledge of it at first. But after a while she said it was a lucky charm she had from a gipsy. I don’t believe in such things of course, but still I thought it could do no harm to fasten it to the boy’s watch-chain.”
“You have kept the string?” Dora interrupted with an eagerness that seemed quite out of proportion to the trivial question.
“Yes, I have kept the string,” Mrs Aylmer answered, surprised.
“Can you show it to me?”
“Of course, dear.”
She unlocked a drawer in her cabinet, and from many relics of babyhood she drew out a faded strip of narrow white ribbon which had been tied in a hard knot to the narrow circlet of a baby’s neck and cut close to the knot.
Dora Myrl almost snatched it from her hand and laid it on the table beside the boy’s “luck,” and eyed them both intently for a long minute.
Then the tension of eyes and lips relaxed, and she turned with a bright smile to Mrs. Aylmer.
“It’s all right,” she said.
“But—what’s all right, dear?” queried the other, startled, and trembling at some subtle meaning in her tone and smile.
“You see that ribbon has been tied only once and never untied?”
“That’s plain enough, but——”
“Wait a bit; let me tell you what this gipsy charm is. It is a Roman Catholic medal in which they have great faith; no wonder it puzzled Mrs. Caruth!”
“Oh! Dora, you frighten me; go on.”
“Have a little patience. You told me you had a Catholic nurse who left before the children were changed, who prayed for your boy. She tied that medal round your child’s neck and it never came off till you cut it off. Can you guess the good news now?”
“My own, own child?” The words broke from her in a half articulate cry.
“Your own child, of course, my dear,” Dora answered sedately. “Your mother’s love made no mistake. The plot is plain as daylight. Mrs. Caruth never changed the children’s clothes nor the children. She knew nothing of the medal. She kept her own child, which she doubtless loved after her own fashion. But she deceived you into the belief that it was yours. Then whether yours lived or died she stood to profit by the fraud.”
Mrs. Aylmer listened with hope and joy shining in her eyes. At that moment Algie burst into the room rejoicing, with a cricket bat in one hand and a fishing rod in the other, and was amazed when his mother leaped on him with eager lips and arms and sent his playthings crashing to the floor, and pressed him closer and closer to her heart, kissing and fondling him and crying through her tears, “My own boy! At last, at last, my very own!”
Mrs. Caruth, calling next day to see Mrs. Aylmer, saw Miss Dora Myrl instead. Under the cross-examination of that astute young lady she completely broke down and confessed her fraud. She fled from the village in fear and trembling, and troubled Alice Aylmer’s peace no more.
“You are our good angel, Miss Myrl,” Roderick Aylmer said when the three sat together that evening, while in Alice Aylmer’s eyes love and gratitude shone through happy tears, for she had confessed and been forgiven, and her heart was at rest.
“You are our good angel”—the man was desperately in earnest and his words tripped each other in his earnestness. “You have given us back happiness. A heavy cloud hung over our home, and you are the sunshine that has dispelled it. You must let us show our gratitude by——”
But Dora cut him short with a gay laugh. “Don’t talk poetry, please,” she said. “You can recommend me professionally to your friends if you like. I have found my vocation. I am about to send this card to the engraver at once.”
She had written some words on a scrap of paper while he was speaking. Now she set it before him and he read, in writing, clear, neat, and almost small as print, the words—