“DEAREST DORA, Come see me if you can. I’m in terrible trouble, ever your loving
“PUSSIE”
“WHAT is it, I wonder,” thought Dora turning the telegram over in her hand. “One could as easily imagine a canary bird ‘in terrible trouble’ as Pussie. It was like her to put her trouble and her love in this way on the wire. Her terrible trouble is very likely the death of a pet lap dog. Well! I must go any way. I haven’t been to see her for six months or more.”
Here it may be interpolated that Eveline—otherwise and always “Pussie” Morris—was an orphan, living with her guardian, Dr. Phillimore and his wife, in a pretty villa outside London. Pussie was an heiress, and Dr. Phillimore was himself a very wealthy man; and though he made belief to practice, his profession was rather his hobby than an avocation.
“You are a darling; you always were and always will be a darling,” was Pussie’s enthusiastic greeting as she met Dora at the gates of Lilac Lodge, and flung herself headlong into her arms. She was a fair-haired, blue eyed, dimpled little beauty that looked fifteen and was twenty. But now her eyes were red-rimmed with much weeping, and the tears broke out afresh as she spoke. She laid a timid restraining hand on Dora’s arm as they crossed the grounds and neared the door of the villa.
“Don’t go in, please,” she whispered, “let us stay out here and talk. I’m frightened of this place since the murder and the inquest.”
“Murder and inquest!” cried Dora in utter amazement.
“Oh! I forgot, you would not know. Dr. Phillimore has managed to keep it out of the papers so far. Mrs. Phillimore was poisoned last week, and my poor nurse, Honor Maguire the only person in the whole world who loved me—except you, dear, I know—has been charged with her murder and carried away to prison.”
Here she broke down so helplessly that Dora led her away to a quiet seat at the far end of the grounds under a cluster of lilacs in full blow that gave their name to the place, and petted and coaxed her like a frightened child.
“Now tell me the whole story, Pussie, straight out,” Dora insisted when the sobbing girl had subsided.
“Well, I’ll do my best, but my brain is dizzy with the horrible things that have been happening. You know that poor Honor has been with me ever since I was a baby. After father and mother died and I came here, Honor came too. It was in father’s will, and though they were never nice to her she stayed on for my sake. Whenever Mrs. Phillimore treated me badly—and she did very often lately,I don’t know why—Honor fought with her fiercely. Dr. Phillimore was most kind to me for the last year or so, but his wife was worse than ever. She used to say things to me often I could not repeat even to you, Dora. Then about three months ago Miss Graham came.”
“And who was Miss Graham?”
“She was by way of a governess or a companion, or something for me. It was Dr. Phillimore found her out. She was awfully nice to me, and ever so handsome, with wonderful big brown eyes and a glorious figure. I never saw any eyes to compare with hers or yours, for that matter. I was very happy, for a while. The doctor was the very pink of politeness and perfection and brought us about everywhere. But Mrs. Phillimore was crosser than ever. She was particularly rude to Miss Graham, who seemed never even to notice it. But one day about a week ago she—that is Miss Graham—came to me crying and said she was going away at once; I was surprised and broken-hearted at the very thought of it and I asked her was it that Mrs. Phillimore again. But she said not, that she pitied Mrs. Phillimore from the bottom of her heart. She would not tell me the reason of her running away like that all in a moment, and when I wanted to speak to the doctor about it she got quite hysterical and made me promise to do nothing of the kind. Just at the last I coaxed her again to tell me why she was going, but she only cried and blushed and hid her face in her hands. Then all of a sudden she jumped up and kissed me and sobbed out ‘Good bye, my pet, good bye, and never believe anything wicked of me, no matter what anyone says.’ I could see that Mrs. Phillimore was glad she was going, but the doctor seemed as sorry as myself.
“He stood at the cab door bare-headed as she was leaving, but she would not as much as look at him or touch his hand when he offered to help her in. But she kissed hands to me at the window and smiled through her tears. The last thing I saw was Mrs. Phillimore shake her fist at her as she drove away. About an hour afterwards I was in the drawing-room crying when Mrs. Phillimore and the doctor came in. She took not the least notice of me. But the doctor came up quickly and put his arm round my waist and kissed me, quite as a matter of course, though he had never done such a thing in his life before.
 “I was too surprised to say a word. I thought he wanted to comfort me and I didn’t mind really—he’s old enough to be my father. But his wife flew at me like a tigress and caught me by the hair and struck me repeatedly on the face. I thought she was mad for a moment, and was so frightened I could not even cry out. Dr. Phillimore seemed almost equally surprised; he made no effort to save me, but rung the bell furiously. Then I screamed; Honor dashed into the room, with the fat butler panting close at her heels. She rushed straight at Mrs. Phillimore and caught her by the shoulders, tore her away; and though she was a big strong woman, Honor shook her like a child.
“‘You wicked old cat!’ she cried, ‘if ever you dare lay your dirty hands again on my innocent darling. I’ll be the death of you, so I will.’ Then she flung Mrs. Phillimore from her all in a heap on the carpet and ran to me, and petted and coaxed me, as though I were still a baby. I heard the doctor and his wife leave the room without speaking, and the butler followed, muttering to himself, ‘It’s an infernal shame.’
“We two—Honor and I—sat down on the hearthrug in front of the cheery fire. I put my head on her shoulder and we talked of the dear old times before we came to this horrid place. But something far more horrible happened that very night. Mrs. Phillimore was poisoned with arsenic, and died next morning in spite of all the doctor could do to save her. The poison was put in a cup of chocolate which she was accustomed to take the last thing before going to bed every night. One of the servants swore at the inquest that she heard Honor say she’d give the mistress a dose that she wouldn’t like, and another was ‘almost certain’ she saw Honor put something out of a paper into the chocolate. Dr. Phillimore had bought some arsenic a few days before and left it on a shelf in his surgery, plainly labelled ‘Poison.’ The parcel had been opened and enough poison taken from it to kill ten men. He had seen Honor coming out of the surgery that night, and she told him she had gone in to shut the window. As well as he remembered, he had shut the window himself an hour before. All this came out at the inquest, and the jury found a verdict of wilful murder against poor Honor, and sent her for trial.
“I was let see her once since. She wasn’t a bit frightened, and spent the whole time cheering me up. She ‘always hated Mrs. Phillimore,’ she said, ‘that was true enough, but she was as innocent as the child unborn of the likes of murder, and God would protect the innocent.’ Oh! I’m so glad you have come, Dora. I’ve read all your wonderful doings and I’m sure you’ll save her.”
“That depends, Pussie dear. It looks a very bad case on the face of it. If she is guilty I don’t want even to try to save her. I hate and detest poisoners—the worst of all criminals. People talk of a revolting murder when blood is shed and bones broken in wild passion. But the clean, quiet, coldblooded poisoning is infinitely more revolting to my mind.”
“But Honor is innocent. I’ll swear it if you like.”
“Your love makes you think so, my dear.”
“Oh! it’s not that; I know it in my heart. You will go all wrong, Dora, if you start thinking her guilty.”
“What does Dr. Phillimore believe?”
“Oh! he’s a strange man. He does not believe in anything or anyone; not even in God. He does not even pretend to be a bit sorry for his wife or a bit angry with Honor, and he has promised to have the best counsel to defend her.”
“But he believes her guilty!”
“He does not say that. He says the evidence is very strong against her; he goes altogether on the evidence.”
“Will he be angry at my coming here?”
“Not at all. He knows you are coming. I asked him if I might have a friend to stay with me, as I was lonely and frightened. He seemed quite pleased, and said ‘Yes, of course’—then after a moment he asked me was it Miss Graham. I told him it was you, and he said, ‘Oh, the lady detective; bring her by all means’ and laughed. You don’t mind his laughing, Dora?”
“Not in the least.”
“And you’ve come to stay haven’t you, dear?”
“Well yes, if you want me to. I’ll go for some things and be back to dinner, but I have a few questions to ask you and a few places to go to first. The chocolate was analysed of course—can you tell me the name of the analyst?”
“Let me see, I think it was… yes, it was Dr. Fallon.”
“I know him—a very clever man in his line. But I want to see Miss Graham too. Do you know her address? I also want to know the prison your old nurse is gone to?”
“I can give you both.”
“That’s good. Write them down for me to make sure, and then good-bye till dinner hour; seven, I think it is. All right. Keep up your spirits, Puss, I’ll do my little best, I promise you, to save the innocent and catch the guilty.” A hansom that she had waiting whirled her away.
Dr. Phillimore was delighted to see Miss Myrl at dinner, and welcomed her cordially and cheerfully without the least affectation of grief for his wife’s death.
He was a tall, powerfully built man that did not look more than forty years of age in spite of a thin sprinkling of white through his dark glossy hair. His face was strong and handsome. Perhaps his mouth, with its double row of even white teeth, was a shade too large, and his lips a shade too thick; but the large soft dark eyes gave a certain gentleness to his face, and his voice was wonderfully bland.
“I cannot play the hypocrite, Miss Myrl,” he said with engaging candour, “or make a pretence of a sorrow that I don’t feel. My wife was a woman of ungovernable temper. She was very cruel to your friend Pussie, and she made my life and her own miserable. It is best for us all, herself included, that she is gone.”
“Have you no thought of the next world, Dr. Phillimore?”
“Oh! he doesn’t believe in any next world,” Pussie interrupted; “isn’t it awful?”
Dr. Phillimore pushed away his empty soup plate and sipped his sherry complacently.
“You don’t profess to believe in such foolishness, I hope, Miss Myrl?” he said blandly. “Nobody does really believe nowadays except a very few fanatics, though most people think it respectable to make belief to believe. The interests of all sects of course try to keep up the delusion and to frighten people into faith, as they call it.”
“He’s an Atheist, Dora,” interjected Pussie again.
“Not exactly, my dear,” Dr. Phillimore went on softly as a purring cat, pleased with the sound of his own voice. “I don’t believe in God and I don’t disbelieve. I simply don’t know. But I, Dr. Phillimore, don’t expect any existence after death except, of course, the chemical existence of elements of my body, in which I am not particularly interested. I mean to get all the enjoyment I can of this life while I have it. A life in the hand, Miss Myrl, is worth two in the bush.”
He finished a glass of dry champagne like one who was putting his theory into practice.
“But this theory of yours,” Dora said, “would relieve the world from all moral restraint.”
“Moral restraint; yes—if there were such a thing. But fear of detection and punishment remains. It is fear that prevents crime, believe me. We could all go just where we want to if we could be sure of hiding our footsteps.”
“Do you believe in nothing, Dr. Phillimore?” Dora asked, with a flattering interest in her voice.
“Oh! I’m always open to conviction. I believe in anything and everything that is proved to me. For example, I believe in many things that the vulgar regard as superstitions, because the proved facts in their favour seem to me conclusive. I am not one of those who refuse the evidence of their own senses and deny everything they cannot find a known law to account for. It appears to me there is a great deal in theosophy, for example, and astrology, and phrenology. Palmistry especially seems to have clearly established its claim to acceptance by unprejudiced seekers of truth.”
“I have heard marvellous things about the palmists from many of my friends,” Dora confessed. “One lady assured me she was told her whole past and future life and the appearance of her husband who was to be. It all was true or came true just as the palmist said, and that was only one case in many.”
“Don’t stir, Miss Myrl,” he said, “if you don’t object to my cigar,” for Dora and Pussie rose together from the table. “You excite my curiosity. Do you know the name of this wonderful palmist?”
“Madame Celestine was the name. Have you a copy of the Times in the house?”
The Times was sent for, and they found Madame Celestine’s advertisement in a prominent place.
“I have a great mind to drop in some time to test her skill,” said Dr. Phillimore, with affected carelessness. He was intensely interested.
“There is no use in your ‘dropping in,’” said Dora, “you may be kept all day. Her reputation has brought clients in droves. Her parlours are more crowded than any fashionable doctor’s, and her fees are just the same. Her fee for a special appointment is five guineas.”
“It’s worth it,” Dr. Phillimore said, “if she can really give you a peep into the future.” He moved from his armchair to a desk in a corner of the dining-room and drew a cheque and scribbled a note. Then he tore up both and threw them into the grate. “I must not give myself away,” he said, smiling over his shoulder at Dora. “Her knowledge of my past must vouch for her knowledge of my future. I’ll send a postal order to-morrow, and have the reply addressed to the post office.”
Next day after dinner Dr. Phillimore showed Dora Celestine’s appointment for the following day at four, with a pink card to secure him instant admission to her consulting-room.
He was evidently much pleased and excited. “Have you ever tried palmistry yourself, Miss Myrl?” he asked.
“Not yet; I may, someday.”
“It would be useful to you in your profession. I believe you practise as a lady detective?”
“Now you are laughing at me, Dr. Phillimore!”
“Not at all! not at all!” he protested politely. “Still, you confess it is a somewhat incongruous—I won’t say comical—profession for a charming young lady.”
“You think us women all weak and foolish?” she said smiling.
“It’s not that,” he answered, with a deprecatory wave of his strong white hand. “I would not harbour such a thought for the world.” But all the time it was plain that was precisely what he did think. “You, of course, are the exception, Miss Myrl. But do you think that women can fairly pit themselves in mind and body against cunning and strong men, and the so-called criminal classes as a rule are both?”
“Women are clever and men are confident; their confidence betrays them.”
“Well, well, let us put cleverness out of the question for a moment. How could a charming young lady, like yourself, for example, arrest a powerful desperado who had not the least respect for her sex or her beauty?”
“Oh! I’d manage it somehow.”
“Forgive me, Miss Myrl; that is one of your sex’s pretty evasions. Let us suppose for a moment that I was your criminal. I never go a step without a loaded revolver, and I’m a dead shot. But I would not need that. I could crush the life out of you with my naked hand.”
Smilingly he stretched out a large shapely white hand, and the muscles packed like a cable coil on his arm stirred under the tightened sleeve of his evening coat.
“But I won’t suppose you against me,” cried Dora, “I will suppose you assisting me in my capture; that’s far more likely.”
“Thank you for the compliment, Miss Myrl. I promise to help you if ever I get the chance. By the way, what do you say to coming with me to-morrow to your friend Madame Celestine?”
“I’m afraid that would be impossible. I have very important work to do to-morrow, but you shall see me later on.”
“Detective work?” he asked, smiling.
“Yes, detective work,” she said, with an answering smile.
Madame Celestine’s residence was a staid respectable house in a staid respectable street with eminent medical practitioners on either side, and a neat brass plate on the door.
At the touch of the electric bell the door was opened by a footman in livery, and Dr. Phillimore entered a well-furnished hall. A parlour door opened and a lady came out, and he could see the room was full of clients. But he presented his pink card to the footman and was shown up a private staircase to Madame Celestine’s consulting-room.
It was a large back room on the drawing-room floor, draped in dark velvet and very dimly lighted. At the far end he could just distinguish a pale-faced woman and a white hand beckoning him through the dusk. Almost over her head an electric lamp was suspended with a narrow funnel-shaped shade that made the light fall in a round white blotch on the floor. There was a second chair set close to the lady’s, on which Dr. Phillimore seated himself.
She took his large white hand in her two little ones and held it palm upwards under the full downward glare of the electric light, studying the lines intently.
He felt her finger tips tremble as she gazed.
“There is here strength without scruple,” she began in a low musical voice, “your life has run and will run no common course.”
“Come to facts,” he said, interrupting her.
“Shall I speak of your past or of your future?”
“First of the past. It will be my guarantee that what you tell me of the future is true.”
“It is well,” she answered, “it is along the road of the past that the knowledge of the future is reached.”
She told him his name and age, and the date of his marriage.
“But,” he answered rudely, “these are the tricks of the common fortune-teller!”
“Shall I speak of your character and opinions.”
“No, I have made no secret of either. Tell me of something known only to myself, and I will believe in you.”
“Some secret of your life?”
“Some secret of my life.”
“Some crime?”
He started but restrained himself.
“Yes,” he answered, “if you choose to call it so, some crime.”
There was a long pause, and then the woman’s voice said slowly, “You have poisoned your wife!”
“It’s a lie!” he answered fiercely, half rising from his chair.
But she held his hand with hands that no longer trembled.
“It is no lie,” she answered firmly; “you know it for the truth. Sit still, and I will tell you every detail of the murder and the motive that inspired it.” He yielded to the fascination of her voice and touch and sat still, devoured by a burning curiosity which conquered his fear and amazement. The man’s coolness had come back to him.
“I will listen to what you’ve got to say,” he answered cautiously.
“Your wife was a very jealous and violent woman,” she began.
“Keep off the commonplace!” he warned her.
“But,” she went on without heeding, “you took your pleasures freely without regard to her jealousy. Your ward’s governess, Miss Graham, inspired you with a fierce, devouring passion!”
He started again, and instinctively half closed the hand on whose lines she gazed.
But he opened it wide in a moment, and muttered, “Go on.”
“You proposed to Mabel Graham to become your mistress, and she refused indignantly and left the house the same day.”
“She may have told you all that——”
“She could not have told me what followed. You resolved to get rid of your wife without danger to yourself, and make an Irishwoman, Honor Maguire, the scapegoat. You kissed your ward that evening to rouse your wife’s jealousy and provoke her to violence, which would madden the hot-tempered Irishwoman, whose threats, you knew, would be valuable evidence against her. Fortune favoured you still more. The Irishwoman, in revenge, put senna in your wife’s chocolate. You saw her go into your surgery, and hoped she would use the arsenic. But failing that, you yourself used it, and turned suspicion upon her.”
The palmist spoke in a low voice, yet so distinctly that every word was heard. Strange as it may seem, Dr. Phillimore, having recovered from the first shock of surprise and fear, listened with something of that satisfaction one feels in having one’s beliefs confirmed. The powers of palmistry were proved, and he was anxious to employ them.
There was but a slight tincture of fear in the man’s nature; of shame—none.
“All this is very interesting,” he answered in a voice as steady as her own.
“Is it not true?”
“If you know so well, what need to ask of me?”
“Because on your past your future depends. Moving on from the past through the present to the future, I must make each step certain as I go. Again I ask you, is what I have spoken true?”
The man’s sardonic spirit mastered him.
“It is quite true,” he answered. “But all the same I am ready to swear it is false, should the need arise.”
“Whose hand put the arsenic in your wife’s cup?”
“It was mine, I tell you!”
She would have spoken again, but he interrupted sharply:
“It’s my turn to question now. Tell me, shall Mabel Graham ever be mine as wife or mistress—I care not which?”
She examined his hands intently; first the right and then the left.
“I see——” she began.
“Yes, yes,” he interrupted eagerly.
“The lines are faint,” she said. “Your fate is there, but vaguely written. I am almost certain, but I must see more before I speak. The backs of the hands are often as legible as the palms.”
At this she set the two palms of his hands together, so that the finger tips and the wrists were touching, and bent down to examine them more closely.
There was a sudden gleam in the white light; a sharp click of steel, and the handcuffs were tight on the doctor’s wrists.
“This is your answer,” cried Dora Myrl’s voice as she leaped from her chair. “Mabel Graham is safe for ever from your pursuit, and Honor Maguire from the halter!”
The room was suddenly flooded with electric light, and two men in police uniform broke from behind the velvet drapings and laid heavy hands upon his shoulders. 