“MAY I come in, Miss Myrl?”
He came in as he spoke, a young fellow, well dressed, handsome, with laughing brown eyes, full of fun and mischief.
Dora wheeled sharply round on her office chair, and stared at him.
“Don’t look at me like that, please.”
He held his shiny hat before his face as if to shield himself from her eyes, and spoke from behind it. “I danced three dances with you the night before last at Lord Millicent’s, and sat out one in the conservatory and you gave me leave to call. Now, don’t you remember?”
“No, I don’t remember.” She had to bite her lips to keep back a smile, for there was a delightful audacity in the gay fellow’s manner.
“That’s awful! But you remember the conservatory, don’t you?”
“Yes, I remember the conservatory.”
“And I asked to be let call, and you said ‘no’ so prettily that I knew you meant ‘yes.’ …. Well, perhaps I was mistaken; you said it so very nicely. Anyhow, I am here now, and I know you’ll give me a cup of tea before you turn me out. May I sit down? Thanks. I want to have a talk with you. I didn’t in the least know who you were last night. The Gov. told me—you know my Governor, Miss Myrl, Sir Gregory Grant; he’s half in love with you he is, upon my soul. The Gov. and I are great old pals; we always have a cigar after the dance, and tell each other everything. ‘Glad to see you show good taste at last, my boy,’ said the Gov. to me that night.
“‘Do you mean that nice little girl in pink, sir?’
“‘Who else?’
“‘A dear innocent little thing,’ I said, ‘I’m over head and ears in love with her already. I mean to propose as soon as I find out her name.’
“‘The Governor burst out laughing; then the cigar smoke went the wrong way and nearly choked him. ‘Propose, indeed,’ he coughed, ‘she would not look at a young puppy like you. Your dear innocent little girl is Miss Dora Myrl the famous Cambridge wrangler and Lady Detective.’ But I could see the Gov. was dead jealous. Please tell me he was all wrong?”
“Well, I certainly am Dora Myrl. I don’t know about the famous.”
“Oh! the famous is all right; that’s not what I meant. But if I were to propose?”
“I should instantly refuse you,” said Dora, laughing in spite of herself.
“Then we will consider that’s all over. Now we’re good friends, aren’t we? Girls always are with the chaps they refuse, and I want you to do me a good turn for another friend of mine, Miss Myrl.”
He dropped the light burlesque he played so prettily. For the first time Dora began to suspect there was a meaning in his visit.
“You are serious this time?” she asked.
“Quite. My father told me about you and I can see for myself you are a good sort, and——”
“Tell me your story,” said Dora, cutting him short.
“Well, you know Sir Warner Hernshaw?”
“I don’t know much good of him. I know that he gambles—cards, horses, stock exchange; anything and everything, and makes it pay. If he backs a horse, it generally wins. If he lays against a horse, it always loses. If his name is in a directorate the shares soar—at first.”
“You don’t like Sir Warner?”
“No, though he makes belief to like me. He’s too handsome and gracious and lucky for my taste.”
“That’s all right. Sir Warner has laid unholy hands on my cousin and chief pal Lord Wellmount, who is the decentest chap living, but as innocent as they make them. Wellmount came into his estate and fortune last year. It’s a big thing, for he and the estate were at nurse together. He’s been scattering the money with both hands ever since. Three months ago Sir Warner eased him of £10,000. He’ll ease him of £50,000 in three weeks’ time, I do believe, if you won’t lend us a helping hand.”
“But how; how? Tell your story right out, can’t you?”
She spoke sharply. Grant opened his eyes in amazement. This was a new Dora. He could hardly believe it was the same girl with whom he had interchanged gay badinage in the drawing-room and conservatory two nights before.
“It was this way. You may have heard Warner has bought a fine old place—Wolverholt. He goes in for big house parties, which are good fun in their way. There are tennis-courts, cricket ground, golf links, and a private race course all within the ring fence of the demesne wall. Now Sir Warner has a wonderful horse—‘The Jumping Frog’ he calls him—that won the Grand National at thirty to one two years ago; and Wellmount has a better horse still to my thinking that won at evens last year. Since then both horses have been handicapped out of everything as the two best steeplechasers in the United Kingdom. They had never met till about four months ago Sir Warner proposed a private match on his own race course for a ten thousand bet and Sir Warner won.”
“Well, there’s not much in that. No one can tell for certain which of two good horses is the better.”
“Give me a little time, Miss Myrl. It was a grand race every way. ‘Goneaway’—that’s Lord Wellmount’s—led from the first. He was five lengths ahead, going well within himself, at the second last fence that led into the straight. It was a big thick bullfinch, but nothing to stop a fencer. He rose to it beautifully, I saw him, made no mistake in jump, but stood stock still shivering on the other side, and his jockey couldn’t get a stir out of him with whip or spur, while ‘Jumping Frog’ romped home past the winning post. The most curious thing of all is that in five minutes more ‘Goneaway’ was as fresh as paint again, and there was not a mark on him anywhere. He looked like a horse that had got a bad fright, but there was nothing to frighten him.”
“I suppose not,” said Dora. “But anyway this business is clear over; you cannot go back on that old race.” There was a touch of disappointment in her voice.
“It’s beginning all over again,” said Archie Grant eagerly. “They have a new match on in three weeks—fifty thousand aside this time. Lord Wellmount thinks his the better horse: I think so too. But all the same I’m sure he’ll get licked. I have just discovered that Sir Warner is laying heavily with the bookies on his own nomination. It is even betting with Wellmount. But he’s giving the bookies three to two and even two to one when he cannot get on easier. Now Sir Warner is not the man to do that unless it was a dead certainty.
“To make matters worse, Wellmount has taken it into his head to run over to America in a steam yacht, and left me in sole charge of horse and race.”
“But what do you want me to do about it?”
“I’d like you to go down for the race.”
“But I cannot go without an invitation.”
“Oh! that’s easy enough managed. The Aylmers are going down. Jolly woman Mrs. Aylmer, and she raves about you, Miss Myrl. She said she will be delighted to take you down under her wing. She told me so yesterday herself.”
“You seem to have laid your plans very confidently?”
“Oh! Sir Warner is always glad to welcome a pretty girl. You don’t mind me saying that? I’ll be there too, if that is any inducement.”
“It isn’t. You’ll be in the way, I’ve no doubt. Still, I wouldn’t have you stay away on my account.”
“Then you’ll come?”
“Yes, I’ll come.”
“By the way, there was one thing I forgot to tell you. It’s not of any consequence really, but I suppose you should know everything. The telegraph broke down just after the race. I mentioned, didn’t I, that Sir Warner had the telegraph run in from the road to the race course for the occasion. No? Well, he had. But when Lord Wellmount wanted to send a message it was found the wire had been cut about seven miles away, right opposite a shooting box of Sir Warner’s, a place for lunch, and that sort of thing, on the edge of the estate. Curious, wasn’t it?”
The arrangement worked without a hitch. Dora had a very hearty welcome from Sir Warner, whose black eyes lighted at sight of the bright, piquant little woman whose pretensions as a detective he regarded with good-humoured amusement.
Dora and Archie Grant struck up a mild flirtation under cover of which they were constantly on the grounds with golf sticks or tennis bats, or on the road with their bicycles, exploring.
The big black bullfinch was a special object of interest to Dora. It was a very high, thick hedge, but with no heavy timber in it that could stop or hurt a horse, standing in a secluded little dip of the grounds quite out of sight of the house. Here, secretly exploring with Grant, she made three curious discoveries. On the ground close to the roots of the blackthorns they picked up a number of grains of what looked like buckshot, but, on rubbing the black off, they proved to be red copper. Searching the branches she discovered a few thin tattered fragments of the oil silk or gutta-percha tissue that is used in surgery, and finally Dora dug out of the ground near the inner edge of the fence a small medicine bottle with a narrow neck, quite empty.
Grant was more and more bewildered at each discovery.
“I think I begin to see light,” Dora said, “but we will wait.”
So they waited for ten days more, and all was made ready for the race. The telegraph was brought in again from the road close at hand to the race course. Sir Warner employed his own electrical engineer for the purpose—a big canny Yorkshire man named Shore—who, instead of poles, used a thin isolated “cable,” running in a shallow trench underground. He seemed to take his own time at the work, lolling about half the day lazily. Dora, coming upon him the second day, said quite innocently: “I hope there will be no breakdown like the last time?” and he just grinned half-sheepishly and half-amused, and went on with his work without answering.
“Would it be something too awful,” she whispered to Grant the night but one before the race, “if we went for a little stroll on our bicycles?”
“Who’ll know?” he answered delightedly.
The whole party were out on the moonlit lawn after dinner, each couple absorbed in its own affairs. “I can bring the machines round to the dark corner of the avenue yonder.”
“All right. I’ll get some kind of dark cover-me-up and be with you in ten minutes.”
In ten minutes they were smoothly skirting the demesne. When they came to a corner where they had a clear view of the fence, Dora slipped from her saddle, motioning Grant to do the same. A big man, black in the moonlight, was at work on the fence. Dora watched him for a moment or two through a strong field-glass.
“He is going,” whispered Grant at her ear.
The man gathered his implements together and made his way out to the road. There his bicycle stood in the shadow of a wall. He slipped the bag over the handle-bar and was up and away.
“What next?” Archie whispered. It was getting exciting.
“Follow; just keep him in sight.”
They followed for about seven miles on a smooth road, and saw the man turn into the gate of Sir Warner’s little shooting-box and disappear.
“Ah,” said Dora, with a little pant of triumph, for she was out of breath, “now we may go home.”
The lawn party was still abroad, and they got into the house without accident or discovery.
“The golf links after breakfast,” said Dora to Grant as they said good-night; “we can talk while we play.”
They had the wide links to themselves, for the company were all absorbed in the coming race.
He knelt to make a “tee” for her.
“No sand, please. I drive from the flat.” She swung her driver with a free sweep, hit the ball a clean sweet smack, plumb centre, and sent it sharp and low a good hundred yards straight for the hole. Grant drove his seventy yards further, and landed in a bunker to the right.
“No more golf,” said Dora, as they strolled away together. “I couldn’t resist just one drive. But we have some quick work on hand. You were right, Mr. Grant, there has been foul play, and will be again if we don’t stop it.”
“I was sure of it. But how was the trick managed?”
“That I cannot tell you.”
“Won’t, you mean?”
“Well, won’t, if you like that any better.”
“We must stop the match, any way?”
“No, that’s just it, the match must go on. I think you told me the jockey takes his directions from you?”
“That’s so.”
“Will you take your directions from me?” very earnestly.
“All right. You boss this show.”
“Then ‘Goneaway’ must run a waiting race and let ‘Jumping Frog’ lead into the straight.”
“Can’t be done,” said Grant shortly.
“Why not? You don’t trust me?”
“It’s not that, Miss Myrl, ’pon my soul it’s not that. But the jockey couldn’t do it if he would, and wouldn’t if he could. ‘Goneaway’ always makes the running, goes away like a locomotive from start to finish. Has got the temper of an angel if you give him his head, but he simply won’t be passed. He’ll break his heart if he is.”
“He’ll lose the race if he isn’t. Now listen to me, Mr. Grant.” Her voice had an angry ring in it. “You must do this for your friend’s sake.”
“You won’t tell me why?”
“I won’t. How do I know what folly you would be guilty of? But this I may tell you. If you follow my advice ‘Goneaway’ will win;” then, with a softening voice, “You said you could trust me.”
Grant was captured. “And I will, here’s my hand on it. But there’s the jockey!”
“What is he like?” she asked. “A swell?”
“Not a bit of it. He’s just a decent stable boy. But he’s as straight as a rush and rides like a demon. Sloan himself couldn’t give him an ounce in a handicap, and he loves ‘Goneaway’ as his father and mother and brothers and sisters all rolled into one. He’ll never pull him without knowing what for.”
“Could I see him with you?”
“Now?”
“Now.”
“I would like it of all things. He’s most likely in the stable. He eats, drinks, smokes, and sleeps in ‘Goneaway’s’ loose box, talking to the horse half the time.”
They heard the muttering of a voice as they came to the door of “Goneaway’s” stable. “We’ll take the puff out of Froggy, won’t we, old man,” said the shrill voice, as Grant lifted the latch.
At the click of the latch the boy turned and faced them, so quickly that the up-turned stable bucket on which he was sitting toppled over with a crash. But his hand went up to his cap when he saw who they were.
He stood before them, lean, and light and tough as a lath; a stolid, honest-looking lad, with red hair, and round, wide-open, light blue eyes, so light that you could barely tell where the white left off and the blue began.
“Ned,” said Grant abruptly, eager to get the thing over, “I’ve come to change my instructions. You let ‘Jumping Frog’ make the running, wait on him until the run home, and then——”
The boy flushed, and his china blue eyes blinked.
“Ye want me to pull the horse. Then I’m d——d if I will. It’s a blooming plant.”
“Why, you infernal young cub,” shouted Grant in a rage, swinging up his golf stick.
But Dora held his arm
“Don’t!” she whispered, “it’s all right. I like the boy the better for this. Now, Ned, listen to me. It’s no plant. We mean ‘Goneaway’ to win.” She stroked the sleek neck of the handsome chestnut, who whinnied and danced a figure step in his litter from sheer light-heartedness. “I’ve got a thousand pounds on him myself at evens. Mr. Grant will have five thousand before night if he takes my advice, and put you on for five hundred. It will cost him nothing, for the race is a sure thing if you’ll only obey orders.”
“But I can’t, Miss,” pleaded the lad. “The gets horse off like a gun; there’s no stopping him at first.”
“All right then. Give him his head at the start. But take second place as soon as you can.”
“I’ll do it, Miss,” said the lad, with a glance of admiration at her bright face and trim figure, “I’ll do it, if I have to wrench my blooming arms out of the sockets.”
The excitement was intense on the morning of race, for every one of the fifty guests had betted heavily. A royal personage had intimated that he would be pleased by an invitation, and at Hernshaw’s insistence had put his money, a good deal of it, on “Jumping Frog.” There were no bookmakers, and Archie Grant had the honour of taking his Royal Highness at evens. The grand stand was packed half an hour before the race. Dora stood at a corner almost opposite the black bullfinch, which she studied through a powerful field glass. Grant and Lord Wellmount, who had got down unexpectedly the night before, were together near the centre of the stand, but by Dora’s advice Grant had told him nothing of their suspicions.
Soon the horses flashed by in a preliminary canter. “Jumping Frog,” a big, raking bay with black points, went with a long, loose stride that devoured the ground. “Goneaway” was smaller, cleaner built, and more compact. His hide had the colour and gloss of a chestnut, and his stride was the spring of a roebuck.
The course was a clear circle, a little over two miles, the starting post not fifty yards from the winning post.
“Off!”
Dora could see “Goneaway,” with Ned Carruthers in green and gold, leap to the front. For first three fields the green and gold drew further and further from the crimson and black. Then the horses came slowly together.
Lord Wellmount dropped his glass. “The cub’s pulling, d——n him,” he snapped out. But Grant did not answer.
Ned Carruthers was tugging at the reins with both hands, and Sam Roper on “Jumping Frog” crept slowly level in spite of himself. Their silks brushed lightly as they flew the hurdles together. But as they landed, Carruthers jabbed “Goneaway” viciously in the flank with spurred heel, and at the sting of the steel the fiery chestnut broke away from all control. Again the distance widened between the horses. They were racing now in the field, with the black bullfinch at the end of it; “Goneaway” in full stride a good three lengths ahead.
“Egad! the horse will win yet, in spite of that cub,” muttered the delighted owner.
Dora’s face was ghastly and her teeth clenched, as the thud of flying horses on the sward and the gleam of bright silk came nearer and nearer.
She waved her hand with a frantic gesture to the foremost rider. Ned Carruthers suddenly let the whip drop by the loop at the wrist, gripped the right rein with both hands, and wrenched the horse’s head round till his neck took the curve of a bent bow, and “Goneaway” slid broadside up to the fence, and broke into it.
“Jumping Frog” was up in a second afterwards. He rose to his fence beautifully. But half way over he shuddered like a bird shot in mid-air, and came down on the other side a limp heap. Then he stumbled to his feet again and stood shivering, heedless of the spur.
Meanwhile Ned Carruthers whirled his horse round for a short run, bored through the hedge with a scramble, and cantered home an easy winner amid tumultuous cheering.
Sir Warner Hernshaw stormed; the placid mask had fallen off, be was terribly hard hit.
“It’s a swindle,” he growled out. “I’m d——d if I pay!”
“What the devil do you mean, sir?” cried Lord Wellmount angrily.
But Dora Myrl quietly interposed.
“Before this goes further, Sir Warner,” she said, “I’d like a word or two with you.” He looked into the clear, steady grey eyes, in which there was now no trace of the arch gaiety that charmed him. Then for the first time he recognised the kind of woman he had to deal with, and guessed, too, by whom he had been checkmated.
“There has been foul play, Sir Warner,” Dora said quietly, as they walked together out of hearing of the others, “but the foul play has been your own. Don’t wriggle so and don’t curse. I can tell you precisely how the thing was done. The electric generator was worked at your shooting lodge by your good friend Mr. Shore, who hitched it on to the telegraph wire. A tubing of gutta-percha tissue, with copper buckshot inside of it, was run through the thick branches of blackthorn, and isolated in a bottle at the far end. The first horse through the fence broke the tubing, scattered the buckshot, made the connection, and got I don’t know how many volts of electricity through his body. It was a neat trap, Sir Warner, but it caught the wrong bird this time. ‘You aimed at the pigeon and shot the crow.’ There’s no use making a fuss. You’ve got to pay up or own up, whichever you choose.”
Sir Warner paid up.