“HOW could you do such a thing, Pussie?”
“Oh! don’t ask me, Dora,” the girl sobbed, showing her tear-stained face from amongst the cushions of the sofa in which it had been buried. “I was wretched and mad, I suppose.”
“But you must tell me everything about it before I can even try to help you.”
“Well, it was this way. I’d been dancing all the night with Sir Charles Phillimore. He quite fascinated me—you know how all the girls run after him—and that night he had eyes only for me, and I was flattered out of my wits. Jem was standing in a corner watching us all the night, and I took a wicked delight in trying how jealous I could make him. But I was startled, I can tell you, for I didn’t expect it in the least, when Sir Charles suddenly put his arm round my waist in the conservatory and kissed me and asked me to be his wife, just as if there was no possible answer but ‘Yes.’
“I was sorely tempted, Dora—I must tell you all my wickedness—to break my engagement with Jem and accept him. But it was only for the tiniest little bit of a minute.
“Then I said ‘No,’ very stiff and dignified, and asked him how dare he take such a liberty. But he only laughed at me, and said he would coax me to say ‘Yes’ by and by; and I was so afraid he would begin then and there that I ran away and got back to the ball-room alone.
“You may be sure I was feeling very good and self-devoted, and a little cross perhaps as well, when I met Jem in that same conservatory. So when he began scolding me I couldn’t stand it for a minute. I gave him back more than he brought, and broke off our engagement right away. We had broken it off three times before and patched it up again, so that didn’t matter much. But Jem was real nasty about it. He swore I was ‘a coquette to my finger tips.’ ‘You don’t care one straw,’ he growled, ‘for that old ass Sir Charles, any more than you do for me. But it amuses you to play with him and break his heart.’”
“Break whose heart?” asked Dora smiling.
“Sir Charles Phillimore’s, of course.”
“Oh! go on with your fairy tale, Puss.”
“Don’t be cruel, Dora, it is not a fairy tale; it is a matter of life and death to me. I’ll try to tell you how it came about. I was just fit to be tied when Jem said this, and I thought of poor Sir Charles all the way home in the carriage, breaking his heart for the love of me. I wrote that very night and slipped out myself—wasn’t that awful?—with my ball dress on and my dressing gown over it, to post the letter round the corner.”
“But what was in the letter, Pussie?
“Oh! I couldn’t tell you what was in it. I was mad when I wrote it. It was full of pity and love and all that sort of nonsense. All I know is that I called him ‘dearest Sir Charles’ three times, and actually mentioned that kiss as if I was glad to have got it—though I wasn’t a bit—and said I had never loved and would never love anyone but him, though all the time I was really thinking of poor Jem. I was mad when I wrote it, I tell you; quite mad!”
“You don’t seem to have been specially sane!” Dora assented judicially.
“I was sorry, of course, next morning,” the girl went on hurriedly. “I thought I would have died with shame when I woke up and remembered what I had written. I believe I blushed all over in my bed at the very thought of it. Then I wrote a second note to Sir Charles, saying the first was all a mistake, and asking him to return it at once. But he wrote back that he liked the first best, so he sent back the second and was trying to forget what was in it.
“I made it up with Jem of course; having got him to ask my pardon, I forgave him—I don’t exactly know for what. But we are to be married in a month. Still that man Sir Charles refuses to give up my note and threatens all sorts of things.”
“What sort of things?”
“I went myself to his rooms. I was afraid of my life that Jem would hear of it, but I went to try to coax the note out of Sir Charles. He made belief that he thought I was coming to make up ‘one little lovers’ quarrel’ as he called it, and he was disgustingly gushing. But not a scrap of the note would he give. ‘Don’t be cruel,’ he whimpered, ‘it’s the dearest possession I have upon earth.’ I went so far, Dora, as to offer him another kiss for it—I did actually, but he wouldn’t.”
“Take the kiss?”
“Give the letter. ‘I will never part with it until your wedding morning,’ he said, ‘for I cannot believe, even yet, that you will break your troth to me.’
“‘Will you promise on your honour to send it to me that morning?’ I asked delighted.
“‘No, not to you exactly,’ he answered slowly, ‘but to your husband I promise most faithfully,’ and I saw by his eyes and the little hard lines at the corners of his mouth that he meant it.
“Oh! Dora, it’s awful! that is the only word, awful! Jem is so jealous, and he won’t believe I never wrote it or that I wrote it for fun or anything of that kind; there’s no use swearing, and he’ll never love me again if he once reads that wicked letter.”
She broke out crying once more, not to be consoled. She was little more than a child in spite of her boast of twenty-one years—a pretty, petulant, loving, lovable, spoilt child. But her fear and sorrow were very real to her, and woke Dora’s pity. So she patted the curly back of the small head gently, for the flushed face was again hidden in the cushions.
“Don’t be a baby, Puss, but just tell me what you want me to do.”
“I want you”—the words came scattered through her sobs—“I want you to coax the letter out of him. He has a good opinion of you. He says you are the brightest and cleverest woman he ever met.”
“I’m sorry for that. It won’t be a case of coaxing him, I’m afraid, and I’m sorry he has such a good opinion of me to begin with—it will make the job harder. However, I’ll do my best on condition that you won’t cry another tear for a fortnight.”
The light-hearted little woman jumped at the condition, and in five minutes she was gossiping gaily about her trousseau as if the obnoxious letter were already in the fire.     
“It pains me beyond measure to refuse you anything, Miss Myrl,” said Sir Charles Phillimore, when Dora called next day.
“Then why not save yourself immeasurable pain, Sir Charles?” retorted Dora.
“It is impossible, my dear young lady, impossible. You cannot guess how I treasure that sweet loving little note. While there is hope for me I cannot part with it.”
“But there isn’t any hope for you. I tell you the girl is in love with Mr. Trevor, and they are engaged to be married in a month.”
“Engaged, not married! Engagements have been broken off.”
“But she tells me that you have threatened even when they are married to——”
“‘Promise’ is the word, my dear Miss Myrl, not ‘threatened.’ A sense of honour would, of course, forbid me to keep the letter after the young lady’s marriage. I have faithfully promised that on her wedding day I will restore it to her husband, and I will most infallibly keep my word.”
He said it with dignity, as though he were really doing the most honourable thing in the world. Sir Charles had what is well called “an imposing manner,” which went well with his stately figure and handsome face. Still on the right side of middle age, though close to the boundary line, wealthy, clever, generous, and a Society favourite: he might have had his pick of a score of Society beauties. But the little, pretty, saucy, reckless, innocent schoolgirl had captivated his fancy, and he was making a desperate attempt to strengthen the hold on her which her madcap letter had given him. He was most courteous to Dora—a very good parody of the old-fashioned courtesy, with gallantry peeping out through the assumption of homage, but she felt at once that entreaties could not move him.
“Is it no use to appeal to your honour, Sir Charles?” she said despairingly.
“Miss Myrl, I am the guardian of my own honour.”
“Then the post is a sinecure, I’m afraid.”
For the life of her she could not resist the jibe. But Sir Charles put it from him with a wave of his white hand. “If an enemy had said this,” he murmured reproachfully, “but you!”—there was a world of tenderness in the intonation of the “you.”
Then Dora determined to play up to the irresistible ladykiller.
“For my sake, then, Sir Charles,” she murmured, with a very creditable imitation of a blush.
“My dear Miss Myrl,” with playful raillery, “for your sake, even for yours—I must refuse. You are famous as an unraveller of mysteries—a finder out of secrets. It would be a crime to rob you of your triumph by tame surrender.”
“Well, will you give me fair play?”
“Fair play and favour. To begin with, I will tell you the letter is in this room and will remain here.”
He glanced round his own large and handsome drawing-room as he spoke. It was full—almost too full—of beautiful and costly furniture. A thousand and one elegant nick-nacks, books, pictures, photos, statues, vases were scattered everywhere on the multitude of tables and cabinets. A velvet pile carpet half an inch deep was on the floor; heavy curtains of brocaded silk and inner curtains of real lace shaded the windows. To look for a needle in a bundle of straw were a simple task in comparison with the attempt to find a letter in such a room.
“You will tell me no more than that, Sir Charles?”
“It would be an insult to your skill, Miss Myrl.”
“But I may come here when I like to look for it?”
“The oftener you come and the longer you stay, Miss Myrl—I had almost said Dora—the more delight you will afford to the most fervent and yet most hopeless of your admirers.”
She could have boxed his ears then and there for tone and look. But she only said, with a fascinating smile, “I will have a double inducement to come. I’ll find you here, if I don’t find the letter. The game begins to-morrow. Take care, Sir Charles, that you do not have too much of me before it is over.”
“That,” he answered, with a low bow and his hand to his heart as he opened the door to let her pass, “is wholly impossible.”
Dora dressed herself with special care next morning; not the art that conceals art, but rather desiring that the special care should be manifest to the experienced eye of Sir Charles.
For weapon of offence and defence she carried nothing but half a dozen yards or so of the finest silk thread, in colour as near as might be to the prevailing tint of the rich carpet, coiled in a loose clue under her glove.
She so timed her morning visit, that she had five minutes to herself in the drawing-room.
She slipped one end of the thread round the leg of the couch on which she sat, and when Sir Charles came in hastily, full of apologies, to greet her, she dexterously dropped the little loose coil into the open pocket of his velvet morning jacket.
Her face was full of a smirking triumph.
“Victory! Sir Charles,” she cried as their hands met, and so surprised him that he forgot the tender squeeze he had intended and stared in blank amazement.
“You don’t mean to say that——”
“I don’t mean to say one word more: even the criminal is not bound to criminate herself.”
He just caught and stopped himself in the act of glancing round to where the letter lay hidden, and broke into a sudden laugh as a new thought came to him.
“A trick, Miss Myrl!” he cried, “and a clever trick; you almost caught me. Come now! confess it was a trick?”
“I will confess nothing and deny nothing. If you’re pleased, Sir Charles, I’m double pleased, and now good-bye! Yes; I must be off. I only wanted to see you before I left. I thought it only fair when I had done what I came to do to thank you for the chance.”
The note of unaffected triumph in her voice still troubled him. He made no further objection to her going. The seat she had chosen was quite close to the door, and he opened it to let her pass, forgetting his bow in his haste.
She laughed to herself on the stairs as she heard him turn the key in the lock. After waiting a moment or two, she came back for her card-case, which she had left on the couch.
At the first tap at the door he opened it, in radiant good humour.
“Confess I startled you,” she said as she picked up her card-case; “you really thought it was gone.”
“I thought you were gone, Miss Myrl; and that grieved me.”
“Well, as you are so kind I will have a look round before I go.”
There, lying on the soft nap of the carpet the fine silk thread was barely visible even to Dora’s sharp eyes. The thread lay first from the couch to the door. Then there was a long straight line beyond the centre of the room close to the window opposite an occasional table that stood a little apart from the other furniture. Here the thread took another turn as Sir Charles came back to the door. About a yard or two from the door the end of it had been drawn from his pocket and lay on the carpet.
Dora knew as well as if she had seen him do it that the instant the key was turned in the lock he had walked straight to see if the letter was still safe. The thread drawn from his pocket as he walked and catching as it fell in the thick nap of the carpet, marked the direction he took and the spot where he had stood. On or near the table, next the angle where the thread again turned to the door, Dora knew the letter was concealed.
Having marked the spot with her eye by the pattern of the flowers on the carpet, she turned her whole attention to the captivation of Sir Charles.
It was no difficult task. She quickly convinced him or rather helped him to convince himself, that her anxiety about the letter was only a blind, or at most was inspired by a touch of jealousy. They talked on many topics just on the border of love making, with now and then a short incursion into the forbidden land. There was a tantalizing temptation in Dora’s eyes that stirred his vanity with the hope of conquest.
“You will have tea before you go, Miss Myrl; now don’t refuse a lonely and disconsolate bachelor?”
“On one condition!”
“On any condition you like except——”
“Oh! I know, it’s not that; you may keep the silly letter if you can. Mine is a very easy condition, merely that in return you will come to tea to me to-morrow. You will be all alone, I promise you.”
“Why, that is not a condition, Miss Myrl; it is a recompense.”
“You will come, then? Four o’clock sharp?”
“If I live.”
Then Dora made tea for him with a silver spirit lamp, from a silver caddy, in a silver teapot, and poured it into eggshell cups of old Dresden worth a whole shopful of vulgar modern crockery ware.
She was more fascinating than ever, and Sir Charles more fascinated as the visit drew to a close.
When she was gone he lit a meditative cigarette, and, while the fumes of the fine Turkish tobacco tickled his nostrils and soothed his brain, he mused in a superior quizzical humour on the vagaries of his own love fancies.
 “She is prettier than the other,” he thought, “and a hundred times cleverer, and she would come to me if I beckoned with my little finger. But still, the little wild school girl that will kiss you or box your ears as the thought takes her has fast hold of my heart in spite of myself. Dora is the very girl for a brisk flirtation—nothing more. She may be a bit cut up when all this is over, but she won’t break her heart, I dare say. What a pretty name it is! Dickens said that before me, and what a bright lively unsophisticated little girl she is that carries that name. There is a world of humour in the notion of unsophisticated Dora as a lady detective.”
He lit another cigarette, and smoked it slowly to appreciate the subtle humour of the notion at his leisure.  
At half-past three o’clock—just five minutes after Sir Charles Phillimore had left to keep his appointment at Dora’s flat—Dora drove up to Sir Charles’s handsome house in Park Lane.
She was so sorry, she said, that Sir Charles was out. She had an appointment with him at four o’clock, and would wait.
The drawing-room was arranged exactly as the day before; even the thread was still there, though it had been swept into a tangle by the broom of the industrious servant.
Dora walked straight to the table indicated by the clue and began studying it. It was rather large, and loaded with a perplexing assortment of books, photographs, and other knick-knacks. The search was narrowed indeed, but for all that it promised to be a troublesome search. “Where shall I begin?”—Dora thought, a little bewildered. Then suddenly an inspiration came to her.
“What a fool I am!” she cried out loud, “it is there, of course. That’s just where a man of his kind should put it!”
Amongst the knick-knacks on the table was a framed photograph of Sir Charles Phillimore himself in a fancy costume as Don Juan.
Dora’s quick fingers had the frame off in a moment and rummaged behind it. She was a woman, and she could not resist a little cry of delight as she found the letter she sought at the back.
But there came an answering cry in a man’s voice from the door!
Dora’s plans had been well laid. She had even given directions to her servant that when Sir Charles called to tea he was to be kept half an hour waiting. But alas!              
“The best laid schemes o’ mice and men
Gang aft a-gley.”          
and even women have no exemption from mischance. It happened that a friend met Sir Charles a few hundred yards from his own door and stopped to speak to him.
In the very strictest confidence Sir Charles mentioned the appointment he was on his way to keep. The friend by an unlucky accident had seen Dora pass a few moments before, and told him so and laughed at him.
Perplexed and annoyed, Sir Charles went straight back to his own house, let himself in with a latchkey, and opened the drawing-room door at the psychological moment to hear Dora’s little cry of triumph, and catch her with the unframed photo in one hand and the contested letter in the other.
She flung the photo on the table, and plunged the crumpled letter deep into her pocket as she turned round and faced him.
He locked the door, put the key in his pocket, and greeted her with ironical welcome and surprise. His good humour had come back and with it his courtly manner, self-conceit persuading him that not his good luck but his superior shrewdness had triumphed over the cunning of the lady detective.
“So we have both missed one appointment and both kept it,” he said. “How fortunate!”
“The game is over, Sir Charles, the stakes are mine. You are too good a gentleman not to own up and pay up when you lose.”
“Pardon me! Miss Myrl, my trump takes your queen and wins the odd trick.”
She flushed a little at his tone. “Surely you don’t mean——” she began.
“You know that charming old nursery rhyme?” he blandly interposed:           
“‘Taffy was a Welshman, Taffy was a thief,
Taffy came to my house and stole a rib of beef;
I went to Taffy’s house, Taffy was from home,
Taffy came to my house and stole a marrow bone.’

I must trouble you for that marrow bone, Miss Myrl.”
“Is that fair play, Sir Charles?”
“All’s fair in love and war, Miss Myrl, and ’pon my word I’m not sure yet whether it is love or war between us.”
“Do you really mean that you will take the letter from me by force?” she asked. Her coolness had come back to her, and she smiled so prettily that the fatuous notion crossed his mind that she enjoyed the prospect.
“A gentle force, a tender violence,” he replied.
“But if I cry out?”
“You would not do anything so foolish and so useless.”
“Perhaps not, but all the same I point blank refuse to give back the letter that I have fairly won.”
“I will give you one minute more to consider the question, Miss Myrl, just while I count sixty slowly. One, two, three, four, five…!”
She took a vesta wax match—a big one—from the silver match box at her chatelaine and lit it.
Sir Charles chuckled to himself: “She must bring the letter out of her pocket to burn it,” he thought, “that is my chance. She is not so shrewd as I thought.”
“Forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, fifty…!”
Dora held the match head down, the wax melted and it flamed up in a fierce blaze. She took a step close to the window.
“Fifty-eight, fifty-nine, sixty!”
With a jerk of her wrist she sent the blazing match amid the light lace curtains.
They caught and flared in sudden flame.
Sir Charles rushed to extinguish the blaze!
In an instant Dora tore the letter to bits, sent the bits fluttering into the heart of the red glare, where they shrivelled and vanished.
Then she turned, cool and prompt, to help Sir Charles: “Catch the silk curtains,” she cried, “jerk down the pole. Now, both together!”
The pole came down with a crash and they easily smothered out the fire, which was after all a mere flimsy blaze that had not caught the silk or woodwork.
For a moment they stood regarding each other comically through the smoke.
Then Sir Charles Phillimore bowed politely: “Game to you, Miss Myrl,” he said, “well won!” 