IT was a marvellous triumph!
“Glorious! Glorious!” they whispered one to another in the crowded Playgoers’ Theatre. “Even she never played like this before.”
Every time Ophelia appeared on the stage there was a universal roar of applause which ceased in silence as she spoke. It was indeed a miracle of acting—reality could not be more real. Ophelia herself, as she came warm with life from the brain and heart of the great Master, lived before the audience. The charming girlish Ophelia of the early scenes, whose happy love, warm in gay young heart, the chilling counsels of father and brother could not kill, changed before their eyes to the womanly passionate broken-hearted Ophelia whom Hamlet had abandoned. The hopeless sorrow in her voice went straight to Dora Myrl’s heart; she leant her face down on her hands, and the tears forced their way between her fingers as she listened:
“And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
That suck’d the honey of his music vows,
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Like sweet bells jangled, out of time and harsh;
That unmatch’d form and feature of blown youth
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!”
In the mad scenes Ophelia was pitiful beyond words—sympathy in its intensity grew to pain. Her reason seemed to come and go like light and shade upon deep still water, in those snatches of wild song. But the grief that crazed her brain showed vaguely through all her changing moods.
Dora could not stand the strain on her heartstrings, so when at last Ophelia passed from the stage, in order to break the illusion, even while the whole theatre still thundered with applause, she stepped unobserved to the stage entrance, where she was well known, and sent in her card to her friend Miss Nina Lovell. She knew that Nina resolutely refused to answer the calls which would bring Ophelia back from her grave, or the ghost of Hamlet’s father from “sulphurous and tormenting flame,” before the curtain; so she was certain to find her in her dressing-room. Following an attendant down dark, narrow, crooked passages at the back of the gorgeous stage, round the coils and angles of slips and scenery, through groups of supers at the wings, Dora caught a sudden glimpse in a looking-glass that hung askew on one of the side scenes of a face that was like the face of a fiend’s as Dante might conceive it. There was a deadly pitiless cruelty in the half-closed eyes and sneering lips that struck a chill to her heart. The next moment at a turn of the narrow passage she came upon handsome debonnaire Dick Dulcimer, the most light-hearted and popular man in all London.
“Wasn’t she just splendid, Miss Myrl?” he cried impulsively. “Cousin Tom is a lucky dog. I’m doing my best to cut him out, though.”
He looked as if he could cut any fellow out with any girl at the moment, he was so light-hearted and handsome.
“I’m here to-night on the job,” he went on gaily, while he pressed Dora’s hand with playful tenderness, “but it’s no use so far. She turned me out the moment I tried love making. It’s faithful till death and all that sort of thing with her. She is fonder of Tom than Ophelia was of Hamlet. Still, I don’t despair; while there’s life there’s hope, but she has just refused me for the seventeenth time. ‘Good-bye, Mr. Dulcimer,’ she said. ‘Au revoir, Nina,’ I answered. I heard her laughing in spite of herself as I went out, and it will be ‘Au revoir,’ you’ll see.”
So, with a gay laugh over his shoulder, he vanished into the darkness.
Dora found her friend in the dressing-room, still in the costume of the mad Ophelia with the flowers trailing through her dishevelled hair and over her dress.
“Welcome! my dear; sit down and have a cup of tea; it’s just making,” cried Ophelia gaily. “I’m glad you came, I was vexed.”
Dora felt it a little incongruous to be on those pleasant terms with the crazed daughter of Polonius; who had wrung her very heart strings a moment before.
“Thanks,” she said, “I will be glad to have a cup of tea. I want it after what you have made me go through.”
“Did I though, really; was I good?” with the innocent delight of a child.
“Good is a weak wishy-washy word; you were heartrending, my dear!”
“I’m glad. It was the last time; they don’t know out there”—she nodded her head towards the front, where the applause came to them like muffled thunder, from the theatre—“but they won’t see me again ever.”
“I’m sorry——”
“You won’t be sorry when you know the rest.”
“I suppose that’s why you say you are vexed.”
“No, it wasn’t, Miss Wiseacre; I’m glad of that, and I wasn’t vexed really. I never am for more than half a minute at a time. It was that Dick Dulcimer, he gets on my nerves; I cannot tell whether to be annoyed or amused at him. But I don’t want to talk of him now. Prepare for a shock, Dora! I’m to be married in a fortnight!”
“Oh!” was the full extent of Dora’s reply. Then she supplemented it by another monosyllable, “Tom?”
“Why, certainly; who else should it be?”
“I congratulate you with my whole heart and him with a heart and a half”—and she kissed her congratulations.
“Oh! I’m the happiest girl in the wide world. There, take your tea—is it sweet enough? a little more cream?—and I’ll tell you all about it. His father came to—— Mark! they’re burying me outside, you know. I’m on the bier and they want me to get up and bow before I’m put in my grave. Where was I? Oh yes.”
“Not on your bier, I’m glad to say.”
“Don’t be frivolous. You remember I told you that I told Tom I would never marry him without his father’s full consent. I thought that was the end of it, and I wouldn’t even let him come see me—at home I mean. Of course I couldn’t help him paying his money and coming to the theatre like everyone else.”
“Like anyone else! Oh Nina!”
“He was there in the same stall every night. There was a nice old gentleman with him that night who applauded almost as much as Tom himself. I got a card when I went to my dressing-room. My heart stopped beating when I read the name: ‘The Earl of Mordor,’ Tom’s father. Oh! Dora, he was charming. I told Tom afterwards it was lucky for him—the father, not Tom—I had not met his father first. He was full of old-fashioned politeness. If I were a Duchess he could not have been more deferential. ‘I come as an ambassador for my son,’ he said; ‘he tells me you have been cruel to him on my account. Will you be kind to him on my account, Miss Lovell?’
“‘Then he has your consent?’ I faltered out. I was as nervous as a school-girl.
“‘Don’t say my consent; my very warm approval. You will forgive my frankness. I was nervous when he told me first until I saw you and heard you. I thought it was a boy’s foolish passion, like——’
“‘Like young Pendennis?’
“‘You’re a lover of Thackeray, that’s another bond between us. Let me confess I did think of Pendennis.’
“‘I hope I’m not like the Fotheringay?’
“‘And I hope I’m not like Major Pendennis?’
“‘You are like Colonel Newcome,’ I answered impetuously, and Dora, I blush to think of it, I just threw my arms round him and kissed him just as I often thought I’d like to do to Colonel Newcome if he were alive.
“When I looked up, there was Tom standing at the door grinning. ‘My turn next,’ he said.
“That is the way it was all settled. Two days after I was introduced to Tom’s brother, the Hon. Bill, who is at school at Rugby, and his sister ‘Vi,’ who has just come out and wants to go in again she says. She and I are the best of friends. ‘I wish you could pass me over your place on the stage, my dear, when you are done with it,’ she said. ‘If I could play like you, I wouldn’t give it up for fifty foolish Toms.’
“They are all coming up from Hazeldean next week, and I’m to be married the week after. Oh! Dora”—she ended as she began—“I’m the happiest girl in the world.”
To prove it she burst out crying.
Dora murmured her congratulations and consolations as in duty bound, but all the time a half-conscious thought away in the back of her head was busy with Dick Dulcimer, the man that got on Nina’s nerves.
Then they talked trousseau for a while.
“But about Dick Dulcimer?” said Dora suddenly, apropos of nothing, with her keen eyes fixed on her friend’s face.
“Oh! don’t talk any more of him, I hate him. That’s nonsense, of course. He’s Tom’s cousin and greatest friend, and no one could really hate him, he is always so bright and pleasant. But still——”
Nina’s wonderful eyes darkened as limpid water darkens when a shadow goes over the sun, and there was a vague trouble in her sweet voice.
“But still, what?” Dora prompted.
“I cannot get myself to trust him. He makes love to me; half joke, whole earnest; yet so playfully that I haven’t a chance to be vexed. Once I was silly enough to tell Tom, but he only laughed at me. ‘I know all about it,’ he said. ‘Dick has given me fair warning he means to cut out. After that Dick and I had a drink together, and he gave me the straight tip for the Oaks—twenty to one. I’ve brought you the result in diamonds; you may thank Dick for them.’ The next time I met Dick, he laughed too. ‘So you told Tom,’ he said, ‘and he thinks it a good joke. Poor old Tom, he is as keen sighted as an owl in the daylight. But it is no joke; it is as serious, my pretty Nina, as anything in this funny old world can be.’
“To-night he was different at first, and he spoke so nicely about Tom that I liked him better than ever I liked him before, and I told him of our marriage. All at once the smile fell from his lips and eyes as I’ve seen a mask fall off. But he brightened again instantly and laughed so gaily that I laughed with him. ‘So you want to be Lady Mordor,’ he said, ‘and so you shall. Will you answer me one question?’
“‘Is it the same old question?’
“‘Not quite. Do you think you could have cared for me if there had been no Tom? There, that will do; don’t speak! I’ll take your blush for an answer.’ He looked at me hungrily, as if he’d like to snatch me up in his arms and kiss me. You know the look, Dora, and then I got angry and turned him out of my room.
“He was quite cool about it. ‘Oh! I’ll come back all right,’ he said. ‘Journeys end in lovers meeting.’
“‘Not always,’ I cried, hardly knowing what I was I saying.
“‘No, not always,’ he answered strangely over his shoulder as he went out—‘Quite right, Nina, not always,’ and he strolled off humming a tune.”
Dora listened intently, her lips tightly closed, her eyes shining brightly, and her pretty forehead puckered into a frown.
“Why don’t you laugh!” cried Nina impatiently, “I tell you all my foolish fancies on purpose for you to laugh me out of them.”
“All?” said
Nina shivered and pouted. “Happiness has made me nervous,” she said hesitatingly, “it’s more like a dream than anything else. But I have a kind of presentiment, I suppose you would call it. As Tom says, there has been an epidemic of accidents in his family lately. It’s not a year ago since his eldest brother Henry shot himself, out pheasant shooting. Dick Dulcimer was with him at the time, and almost lost his reason, they say, from the shock. Since then Tom has had two narrow escapes—once boating and once riding. He insists that Dick Dulcimer saved his life on both occasions, but I never could get the story clearly from him. Jem—the boy—was nearly poisoned by a mistake of his medicine, and ‘Vi’ almost burned to death by her ball dress taking fire; providentially, they both escaped without injury. About a month ago Lord Mordor was attacked by a mad dog that came upon the lawn—no one knew from where. It was running at him open-mouthed, not a dozen yards off, when the keeper shot it. But of course all this has nothing to do with Mr. Dulcimer.”
“Of course not,” assented Dora. “What is Mr. Dulcimer?”
“A very handsome, agreeable man,” answered Nina laughing. She seemed to have got her troubles off her mind by the mere telling of them.
“I know all that. But what does he do for his living?”
“Oh! he is something in the City, and Tom says he is very smart ‘on ’Change,’ though you’d never think it.”
“Oh! yes, I would think it. Where does he live?”
“He has a flat—Waltham Terrace, West; I forget the number.”
“Oh! I’ll have no trouble finding that out.”
Nina looked at her with bright eyes brimming over with fun.
“How queerly you talk, Dora; you have not fallen in love with my gay Lothario-Dick Dulcimer, have you? How serious you look, my dear. I’m afraid it’s a very bad case.”
Next day there was a volunteer in the District Messenger Brigade who wore the uniform though he had never been regularly enlisted. A nice looking lazy young lad who loitered down Waltham Terrace when Dick Dulcimer came out. As Dick hailed a hansom the messenger passed so close at the moment that he could not help overhearing the address in the City. For the rest of the day that messenger boy might be seen unobtrusively coming and going in the vicinity of Dick Dulcimer’s offices, and out of his comely, stolid stupid face, under drooping eyelids, looked the keen eyes of Dora Myrl, which nothing escaped.
At about three o’clock she had the reward of her vigilance.
A big man, tall and square-shouldered, walked briskly down the pavement and turned sharply into Mr. Dulcimer’s office, as though by appointment.
Dora caught but one glimpse of the dark strong face, with square protruding chin and beak like a hawk’s. But it was enough. When she had last seen him he had worn a full beard and whiskers; now he was clean and shaved, but she knew him instantly as Filox Cranshaw, one of the cleverest and most dangerous desperados in London. She had been on his track for a dynamite outrage—the front of a jeweller’s shop blown in at night; the policeman on duty killed and the place plundered. At the time she convinced herself that Cranshaw was guilty, but had failed to find evidence against him. Her suspicion of Dick Dulcimer hardened to a certainty when she saw this man pass familiarly into his office. They were an hour together; Dora was all the time devoured with impatience.
At last she came briskly up to the door with a message—as she said—for Mr. Dulcimer. She wouldn’t give the letter to the clerk; she was told, she said, to put it into the hands of the gentleman himself.
It would be easy, she thought, when Dick appeared to fumble in her pocket for the letter and pretend she lost it. Then a report at headquarters wouldn’t hurt. But she was not put to that. Dick Dulcimer’s voice from within told the clerk he was not to be disturbed. Instigated by the messenger, the clerk knocked again. Mr. Dulcimer put his head out to tell him to go to the devil. Through the half open door Dora could see that the two men had been seated at a table on which there was a large outline map and a Bradshaw railway guide. That was all.
After that there was nothing for it but to watch and wait. In half an hour more they came out together and walked to a telegraph station down a back street, about a mile or so from the office.
“It’s a quiet place,” said Cranshaw. “I’ll send you a wire here on Wednesday afternoon when the job is done.”
“Wait a second,” answered Dulcimer, “while we are here I may as well do a stroke of business which will help to pay our expenses.”
He took a form from the counter and wrote: “Burdock, Stock Broker, Throgmorton St. Sell for my account five thousand London South-Westerns. Richard Dulcimer.”
A messenger boy, apparently waiting for a despatch, read the telegram over his shoulder.
This was Monday. On Tuesday Dick Dulcimer walked to the office in the gayest of gay humours, humming an opera tune, a bunch of sweet smelling spring violets in his buttonhole. He was a refreshing figure to meet, and many a pretty girl dropped her eyelids demurely after one quick look into those wide open smiling blue eyes, and cast a shy look after the trim figure as it passed.
All day Dora watched him like a cat at a mousehole, but nothing came of it.
Early in the afternoon of Wednesday he called at the telegraph office, and seemed a little disappointed there was no message for him.
At six he came again. This time in reply to his question the clerk handed him a russet envelope. He tore it open impatiently and read the message under the gas lamp in the office, puzzling over it a little as though the writing was illegible. But he got it all right, at last, and his face brightened. Crumpling the message and envelope together into his pocket, he left the office with a brisk step. Just outside the door he seemed to change his mind. He drew the crumpled ball of paper from his pocket and tore it into pieces, which he scattered like a small pink snow storm. Then, without turning his head, he walked briskly round the corner.
The air was still and the pavement greasy; the bits of paper rested where they fell without a flutter. It happened there was in the quiet street at the moment only one other person—a District Company’s messenger.
He did a very queer thing. Mr. Dulcimer’s back had no sooner disappeared round the corner than that district messenger was down on his knees on the greasy pavement. He lightly and dexterously swept the fragments of paper into his handkerchief, picking up a few bits that had dropped into the kennel. Then, running down the street in the opposite direction to that Mr. Dulcimer had taken, he jumped into a hansom, gave the driver Dora Myrl’s address, with a promise of a double fare if he drove quickly.
With a bottle of gum, a sheet of foolscap, and a camel’s hair brush Dora had no difficulty in piecing together the tattered telegram. This is what she read on it:   
U I F K P C E P O F T M F F Q F S D M B N Q F E
P O U I F M J O F C F U X F F O U I F F E E J T D P
N C F B O E U I F F W F S I B N T U B U J P O T N B E F
D F S U B J O U I B U U I F X I P M F N P S E P S Q B S U Z M F B
W F C Z U I F O J H I U N B J M B O E B S S J W F
B U P V S U F S N J O V T B C P V U P O F G P S U Z D P
O H S B U V M B U F Z P V S M P S E T I J Q.

It was a cypher, of course, but whether simple or complex was a vital question. Dora had given much time to cypher deciphering and there were few she could not unravel given time. But now she had a shrewd suspicion there was no time to spare; that life and death hung upon her speed. It was probable, she thought, that the cypher before her was of the simplest kind, merely meant to elude the telegraph clerks by the substitution of letters, each letter having always the same value. It was worth trying anyway, as the test was so easy.
In any writing of that length “E” is sure to be the most frequently recurring. This is the first rudiment of the art.
A single glance at the telegram showed her, even without counting, that “F” was the letter most frequently repeated, She assumed that “F” stood for “E” in the cypher. It was morally certain, as she knew, that the word “the” would recur several times. Glancing over the telegram she found the combination “UIF” frequently recurring. The word “the” thus indicated gave her, not merely letters, but also the beginning and ending of a word whenever it occurred. At its fifth recurrence she found in the word, or end of a word, before it the combination UIBU. But she already knew that U=T and I=H. Transcribing the combination to this extent she got “thbt,” “B” being the only substituted letter. It was at once plain that the word was “that,” and so another letter, B=A, was added to the correct vocabulary. She now set them out in a table for quick reference:             
B=A
U=T
I=H
F=E
A glance at the table revealed the whole clue. She thought herself blind that she had not guessed it before. For each letter the next in order in the alphabet was substituted, B for A and C for B and D for C, and so on to the end.
With the clue in her hand the infamous telegram became instantly clear:     
“The job done. Sleeper clamped on the line between the Eddiscombe and the Everham stations. Made certain that the whole Mordor Party leave by the night mail and arrive at our terminus about one forty. Congratulate your lordship.”           
She had not an instant’s doubt of its meaning. She knew that Lord Mordor and his son and daughter were coming to town by the London South-Eastern line, and she knew the “terminus” those devils had prepared—not for them alone, but for the whole trainful of passengers.
Instantly every faculty of mind and body was on the alert to avert the hellish outrage. In the half-hour’s rapid drive to the station of the London South-Eastern line her plan was formed.
“It cannot be done, Miss Myrl,” said the superintendent, “it really cannot. It is without precedent. I should at least have the authority of the traffic manager and he is——”
“But the men will do it if you order?”
“I believe so, but——”
“There must be no ‘buts,’ Mr. Merton; remember what the stake is! Have you wired to Everham Station?”
Even as she spoke a boy entered with the answer. It was very short: “Cannot get through, wires cut.”
“I knew it, I knew it!” cried Dora passionately. “While we stand here doing nothing, a trainful of human beings is rushing straight to destruction. I have told you how to save them! There is not a second to spare, and you keep talking of the company’s rules and bye-laws. Good bye! I’ll appeal to the men; it’s the last chance.”
Her passion captured the superintendent. He was a sedate young man with mutton chop whiskers that showed black against his white face, but his eyes and lips were steady.
“Rules be d——d,” he said, “I’ll do it!”
There were a number of tubes with mouthpieces in his room close to the chimney-piece. He spoke a few words sharply through two of them.
“I have ordered them to get ready ‘The Pioneer,’ the fastest engine on the line, and I have sent for two men, a stoker and engine driver, who—— Oh! come in!”
Two men came in, a big man and a little man, in answer to this intimation. The big man was fresh and rosy from a recent scrubbing, and his heightened colour made his blue eyes seem bluer. The little man was dressed from head to foot in grease and smut. His high cheek bones were shiny black knobs. Small keen grey eyes and large ivory white teeth were the only touch of colour in his face. But he was quite at his ease, and nodded almost patronizingly to the station master.
“I want you, O’Brien, you and McClintock, on a dangerous job!”
“We’re ready, sir,” said the big man.
“This lady has brought the news there is an attempt to wreck the night mail between Everham and Eddiscombe. I’m sending ‘The Pioneer’ down on the same rails to warn and stop her. I want you to drive and McClintock to stoke; will you go?”
“In course I’ll go,” said the Irishman, almost angry at the question. “Do you think I’d let the craturs go to smash without a try to save them!”
“What do you say, McClintock?”
“Weel, I dinna say aye and I dinna say naw. ‘The Pioneer’ will be five meenits and maybe mair getten’ up steam. There’s time to think over the job a bit. There wull be a reward likely for someone out of this, Meester Merton?”
“If the train is saved, I think I can promise you two men a hundred pounds!”
“Each?” asked McClintock.
“Each,” answered the other.
“Or one’s widows maybe in case——”
“Yes, or your widows!”
“An ye waudn’t mind putten’ it in writin?”
The station master scribbled a few words hastily, which McClintock put away carefully in a pocket.
“Ye’re too impetuous, young man!” he said to the station master. “I was bund to gae the trip if there were ne’er a bawbee to be got of it. Ye’re hastiness has cost the coompany two hoondred punds; naw less! Hark! there’s ‘The Pioneer.’ I ken the squeal of her!”
The superintendent’s office, in which they were, opened on the platform. Merton and O’Brien flung the door open, and started to run. Dora followed, but McClintock laid a grimy hand on the sleeve of her grey dress. She keeps that dress yet for the sake of the five grimy stains on the sleeve.
“All in guid time, ma lass,” he said. “It will take her five meenits muir to get her steam oop!”
A sudden impulse made Dora look at her watch. She could hardly realise that time had gone so fast. It was a quarter to eleven.
“How far is it to Everham Station?” she asked McClintock as they walked rapidly down the platform together.
“Aboot feefty miles.”
“It’s nearer than Eddiscombe—is it not?”
“It’s a guid seven miles nearer!”
She groaned in spirit.
At eleven forty the night mail would be at the fatal “terminus,” and they were fifty miles away waiting for an engine.
But no time was lost now. There were a number of men busy about “The Pioneer.” They had fitted her with a huge head light flaring red, and were hurling coal into her furnace. McClintock jumped on board at once and took charge. The other three—Dora, Merton, and O’Brien—waited, boiling over with impatience.
The flames crackled and roared in the glowing furnace, and the great engine purred and quivered as the steam mounted in her boiler. The steam whistle yelled again as McClintock touched it. O’Brien jumped in, and the two other men jumped out.
“Good bye!” Dora and Merton said together, and then their feet met on the step of the tender.
“Surely you’re not going!” they began again together, but they stopped short as they looked in each other’s eyes, and Mr. Merton gravely handed Dora into the tender, and stepped in after her. At the same moment the engine began to slide out of the station, getting up speed as it went. Dora came close to where O’Brien stood with his hand on the lever.
“It’s ten minutes to eleven,” she said, “you have forty-five minutes to do fifty miles!”
“We’ll do it, Miss; never you fear,” was the confident reply. Then he pressed the lever, and the engine seemed to answer with a bound. Through the long suburbs they fled, with rows of houses with lights in the windows racing and twisting on either side. They broke abruptly from the city out into the open country. The red light showed far ahead in waves and flashed, and the angry wind whistled and howled as they tore through a hurricane. Dora peered for a moment round the iron shelter, and the tears streamed from her eyes, and the breath was driven back by the wind into her labouring lungs.
Meanwhile McClintock, with black arms bared and the black sweat streaming down his face, shovelled the coal into the furnace. In an instant, as they touched the fiery glow, the big black blocks crackled, broke into flames, and grew crimson to the core.
The steam puffed through the funnel and hissed through the safety valves, and still the engine flew. Wheels, and cranks, and pistons made clanging rhythm through the silent night.        
“Hurry on! Hurry on! Death is before you!”
“Hurry on! Hurry on! Death is before you!”
they rang incessantly in Dora’s ears. Down long grades they rushed without a touch of the brake, and round clean curves, whirling, as it were, on the outer edge, with the further wheels clean lifted from the rails.
Twice with a shrieking of the whistle they flew past long trains, leaving them, as it were, standing, and Dora caught the gleam of light, and a wavering glimpse of white faces and staring eyes as they passed. Into stations and out again they went clanging, with never a halt, so that the lamps and the lighted rooms, and the frightened people on the platforms—red as blood in the glaring head-light—were no more than the sudden picture of a lightning’s flash, slid backwards under those flying wheels, and the fatal terminus came on.
“Everham!” the driver yelled in Dora’s ear as they flashed through a station, and there was a sudden slackening of speed.
“We’ve done it in forty-four,” he said, with a glance at his watch, “how now, Miss?” His right hand was still on the lever, but the engine had slowed more and more. Instinctively he took his instructions from her. At the name of the station there came upon Dora a sickening sense of danger. Hitherto she had been absorbed by a mad desire to get there in time. Now that they were there, terror gripped her heart. Somewhere between the Eddiscombe and Everham station the death trap was laid. If they went forward now, at any moment they might go crashing into the obstruction.
They had slackened speed on a waving curve of the line that ran through a valley, where they could neither see nor be seen a hundred yards ahead.
“What’s after this?” she asked, with her lips close to the driver’s ear. She pointed forward, and he guessed her meaning.
“There’s a mile or so of this corkscrew cutting,” he answered, “then a long, straight, downgrade: the longest on the line.”
“Then rush the curve!” she said, “we must chance it.”
Without a moment’s hesitation O’Brien’s big hand pressed the lever, and the engine leaped forward again like a wild horse spurred, and went crashing at a mad speed through the deep cutting of rough stone. It was a long moment of agony that seemed an hour. Their breath was pent tight in their bursting lungs; every nerve and muscle was strained tense in horrible expectation. At any second the fatal crash might come. All at once the high walls of the long cutting from which the red light flashed and flickered seemed to melt into the wide night air, and at the same moment the engine came up with a jar, and hung snorting and shivering on her brakes.
“Look!” said the driver.
The hurricane had eased like magic, and Dora, a little stunned by the sudden calm and silence, looked over the iron curtain of the engine, far away into the holy, starlit night. Down the slope the bright rails ran on the edge of a high embankment into the distant valley. She could see them dwindling to mere threads of light in the distance.
“We can do no more, Miss,” the engine driver said, “they can see our red light a good three miles off. If they turn the far curve safely, they are safe.”
Plainly they could do no more. Their risk was the train’s risk now. If they struck the hope of warning it was gone. So they waited trembling, their red light flaming and their steam whistle shrieking a wild warning into the darkness of the night.
The ordeal was brief. They were not five minutes on the watch before Dora’s keen eyes caught a speck of moving light far down in the valley. O’Brien saw it almost at the same instant.
“The night express!” he gasped out, “safe so far; let her rip, Jim!”—and the steam whistle yelled like ten thousand demons.
The distant light wavered and stood still, and a steam whistle answered in the distance.
O’Brien broke into a cheer that sounded like a sob.
“She is safe!” he cried, “she won’t stir a step now till we crawl down to her at our ease.” The engine trembled into a snail like motion as he spoke.
In the sudden reaction the thought flashed into Dora’s mind, “What if it is all a cruel jest.” But before thought could take shape the engine was brought up with a sudden jolt that jarred her nerves.
O’Brien instantly climbed over the side. He found the front wheels against a great beam of wood clamped with iron holdfasts to the rails at a point where the line ran along the steepest ridge, and a fall of sixty feet, at least, made destruction sure.
The big Irishman was on his knees beside the engine tugging at the beam.
“May speedy damnation light on their souls who planned this devil’s job!” he said solemnly as in prayer—and instinctively three voices from the engine answered, “Amen.”
The day but one afterwards the following paragraph appeared in evening papers under a sensational heading:                
“Inexplicable Outrage
“This  afternoon as Mr. Richard Warnham Dulcimer was walking to his office in the city, he was suddenly accosted by a well-dressed man who shouted: ‘D——n you for a white-livered skunk, you’ve blown the gaff and put the police upon me. But I’ll pay you out!’ There was a crowd around at the time. But before a hand could be raised, the madman—for so we must suppose him—drew a revolver and shot the unfortunate gentleman through the heart. Instantly he put the revolver barrel between his own lips and fired again. The bullet broke a hole through the roof of his skull and scattered his brain on the pavement. No motive can be suggested for the outrage. The murdered gentleman—who was a nephew of Lord Mordor, with whom he was on most friendly terms—was universally beloved for his genial temper and kindness of heart.”