FOR a while she was stunned and bewildered at the change. No wonder. One week she was a petted and pampered heiress, the only daughter of a reputed millionaire; the next a great commercial crisis carried off fortune and father together, and left her a penniless orphan. It is but fair to the dead man’s name to say that there was no dishonour in the disaster. Poverty, but not disgrace, was his daughter’s heritage.
There are some natures that adversity tests and tempers, as the cold sting of the ice water tempers the steel.
Maggie Norris was not one to sit down with idle hands in her lap to lament misfortune. This slight, pretty, brown-eyed, brown-haired girl had more than the courage of a man. Grief, sudden and sharp as it had been, could not stun her into apathy. She set to work almost at once to make a home and livelihood for herself. The most despised of her accomplishments helped her. It is the rare talent that pays. She could draw and paint very prettily, but so could multitudes of others. But she had one accomplishment that was unique. In silhouette she had no rival. Give her a sharp scissors and a sheet of thin black paper, and she would give you in return with marvellous distinctness an outline of an animal, or of a landscape, or a faithful profile of a human face. She had such a happy knack to catch a familiar and characteristic pose that there was art of its kind in her black outlines. By the exercise of this art she was able, at least, to keep food on her table and a roof over her head, if little more.
Many of her former friends would willingly have helped her. But she refused all aid, and after a time they dropped quietly out of her life. Of those whom the heiress had known in the old days only three remained to the scissors and black paper artist. There was her distant cousin Frederick Norris; a quiet, good-looking self-contained young man whom his friends prophesied would go far. After a brilliant student career he had got the letters “M.D.” to his name in the Medical Register. But he had got next to nothing to his name in his bank book. He came now and again for a cup of afternoon tea to the quiet little sitting-room which Maggie called her studio. There also came the gay, young actress Carrie Vivian, whose name was already beginning to creep into prominence in the newspapers.
Maggie Norris’s third friend was Dora Myrl, the lady detective.
“Oh, I’m getting on, Dora,” she said, while her scissors all the time went snip-snap and littered with thin black shavings the floor of the little room which she had occupied for over six months. “I am getting on; not like you, dear, of course, who have jumped into fame and fortune at a spring. All the newspapers are full of that story of the fiddle.”
“The case was as easy as kiss hands, Mag. I cannot tell why they make such a fuss about it.”
She drew off her gloves slowly, dropped into an easy wicker-work chair, and watched her friend’s nimble white fingers admiringly, and the quaint outlines that grew under her scissors.
“That’s what they said to Christopher Columbus, Dora, when he showed them how to make the egg stand. But Christy himself knew better. There you are, my dear, guessing one of your riddles.” She tossed her a scrap of black paper with a wonderfully clever profile of herself. There was a subtle suggestion of intentness in every line of it.
“Have you ever failed yet, Dora?”
“I have never yet got a really hard riddle to guess.”
“Well, I don’t know what you call hard. I could never guess the easiest, and you’re so clever. But all the same I think I could put you a conundrum that would puzzle even you.”
“I can only do my best.”
“Isn’t it the motive that helps you to find things out? I remember reading in some detective book, ‘search first for the motive.’”
“Cherchez la femme’ is the true reading.”
“Oh, of course, but the woman is very often the motive. Am I not right; isn’t the motive the best clue?”
“That’s so,” Dora agreed.
“Well, I am going to tell you of an offence without a motive.”
“You cannot. Every offence has its motive; even a madman has his motive, such as it is.”
“Don’t be too sure of that till you hear my story out. There can be no possible motive for the theft I’m going to tell you of.”
She crossed the room and took a small packet from a locked drawer. “Here are a bundle of old letters; I think I showed them to you before? No! well, that doesn’t matter; they are from my grand-uncle to my grandmother, written nearly fifty years ago. Like my poor father, he lost his fortune suddenly, and his health followed it. When he was utterly broken down my grandmother, his youngest sister, came to hear of it. She sent him such money as she could spare or as she couldn’t spare—she was not very rich in those days—and comforted him with long loving letters. These are the replies. She gave them to my mother and my mother gave them to me. Just listen to the last of all, written just after my mother’s birth and just before the writer’s death. I have often cried over it.”
She picked up a worn yellow letter out of the packet, and read with a little catch in her voice:
“My dear Sister,—It was like your own kind heart to think of a poor broken-down castaway at such a time. Your husband himself was not gladder of the good news than I was. May God bless you and the dear little daughter, and repay you for all your kindness to me, for I never can. I will not trouble you much longer, Emily. Don’t grieve for me. My only grief is that I can do nothing to show my gratitude. But if in the next world we are allowed to have a hand in the doings of this, your children and your children’s children shall be my dearest care.”
As Maggie read the letter her tears fell rustling on the paper; not for the first time, as the blisters showed.
“He died the day this was written,” she said softly.
There was silence for a full minute: she had forgotten all about her wonderful conundrum.
“Where does my riddle come in?” said Dora at last.
“Oh, I had forgotten. You see these old letters. They are of no value to anyone but me. It would be enough, goodness knows, to steal the letters; but what do you think of the thief who stole the ragged old envelopes and left the letters behind him?”
“How do you know they were stolen?” Dora asked with sudden seriousness.
“Because I left the letters in a locked drawer with their envelopes on. The lock was tampered with and the envelopes are gone. I’m a most careless person as a rule. I leave my scraps of jewellery and loose change everywhere strewn about, but I never missed any before. Isn’t it a curious case, Dora?”
“Very curious and interesting and exciting. Where do you say your uncle wrote from?”
“I didn’t say, but it was from the Mauritius.”
“What were the envelopes like?”
“The same paper as the letters, but more torn and worn.”
“You are an artist, Maggie. Could you do me a facsimile of one of the envelopes?”
“I think I could. Will a pencil do?” She cut off a piece of paper about the size of an envelope and slowly traced an address on it in a shaky hand. Then she paused. “Do you want the postmark and stamp and all that?”
“Yes, everything you remember.”
“Oh, I remember well enough. The stamp was the prettiest queen’s head I have ever seen; young, with a slight crown, and the hair done up with three little knobs at the back—this way.”
She made a dainty sketch of a queen’s head on the paper with a crow-quill pen.
“Can you fill in the letters?”
“Well, you want a lot. I cannot remember—yes, I do. ‘Mauritius’ was at the right hand: and, let me see, ‘Post Office’ on the left. I cannot think what was at the top and bottom.”
“But the colour—surely you remember the colour?” There was a note of intense eagerness in Dora’s voice.
“Of course,” Maggie answered, smiling. She dipped a brush in a little porcelain trough of water, rubbed it on to a slab of paint in her box, and painted the little sketch of the stamp a delicate blue.
There was a sudden little cry from Dora.
Maggie looked up surprised. “Why, Dora, how pale and excited you look. I meant my riddle as a bit of fun for you.”
“I wish you had shown me those letters with the envelopes on, Maggie.”
“Have you guessed anything, Dora? Oh! you have. I see it in your eyes. You have found the thief’s motive.”
“Well, yes, my dear old innocent Peggy, I think I may say I have found the thief’s motive.”
“And the thief?”
“No. I have yet to find the thief.”
“Do tell all about it.”
“Well, of course you have heard there are such things as postage stamp collectors?”
“Of course.”
“You don’t by any chance happen to know one intimately?”
“Oh no. I have always thought it the silliest of crazes.”
“That depends. Now I happen to know a little of the subject, though I am not a collector myself. The stamps on those envelopes are rather fancied by collectors.”
“And they are of some money value?”
“Well, yes; I think I may safely say they are of some value.”
“That disposes of the motive. You have guessed my riddle.”
“But I want a little more. I want the thief and the stamps—especially the stamps.”
“What do you mean to do about it?”
“In first place, I am going to set a simple, little, commonplace trap in the shape of an advertisement in the Times; just this.”
She wrote as she spoke:
“Wanted, one or more blue Mauritius stamps. The full market price will be given. Strictly confidential.”
“You see there are not many of those stamps going, and the collectors are likely to hold what they have. So that the advertisement may fetch the thief.”
Luck seemed to be with Dora. Two days afterwards she had a single answer to the advertisement; a very brief and discreet answer, written apparently in a disguised hand: “State terms and address to ‘X,’ General Post Office, to be left till called for.”
She showed the answer to Maggie, and replied stating generous terms—“Address ‘Y Z,’ General Post Office.”
There was no answer the next day nor the next. But on the third day—the first of April as it chanced—there was a thin letter for “Y Z.” She tore it open hastily and found the two words “April Fool,” nothing more, written in the same hand still more elaborately disguised.
Dora was puzzled, and carried her perplexities to Maggie.
“That’s just what he prophesied,” said Maggie.
“He! who?”
“Why Fred, of course. I mean Dr. Norris, my cousin, you know.”
“But what did he know about it?”
“Carrie Vivian and I were chatting the matter over the other day, after you brought me the first answer, you know, and when Carrie told him he said he was sure the thief would never be so silly as to run his head straight into your trap.”
Dora’s eyes brightened and her lips tightened. “She said that he said the thief would trick me. Well, we shall see.”
She left the place without another word. For a week there was no sign of her, but at the end of the week a dapper, dark-skinned little Frenchman called with a note from Dora to Maggie.
She was too busy, Dora wrote, to call herself, but she could not refuse a line of introduction to her friend, Monsieur Duval, who was anxious to have some photographic views he had taken of Irish scenery artistically coloured. “M. Duval,” the letter ran, “is rich and can pay generously, and I believe he will; besides that, he is a very old and dear friend of mine; so I hope you will be good to him for my sake, and a little for his own. P.S.—I have not forgotten our riddle. I hope to puzzle it out yet. D.M.”
Maggie received the dapper little Frenchman kindly for Dora’s sake, and liked him for his own. His manner was so unaffectedly bright and pleasant that it was impossible not to like him. He was full of native curiosity about everything and everybody, and his childlike ignorance of English ways was a constant source of amusement.
He professed himself charmed at the way his photos were being tinted, and persuaded her to begin a little portrait of himself on ivory. But, strangely enough, he could never be coaxed to sit for one of the silhouettes which were Maggie’s speciality.
Carrie Vivian met M. Duval at Maggie’s studio and was taken by him at once, and carried him off to the theatre and made much of him. But Dr. Frederick Norris did not cotton to him in the least.
About this time Dr. Norris had given up calling at his cousin’s studio. His manner, always quiet and self-contained, had grown almost morose, and he talked of flinging up his growing practice in London and trying his luck in South Africa. It was a coincidence that about the same time Maggie’s spirits and appetite deserted her. She sighed and moped, and even the sallies of the gay little Frenchman could hardly rouse her.
In spite of his antipathy to M. Duval, the little Frenchman had a curious attraction for Dr. Norris. It would almost seem as if the doctor followed and watched the gay unconscious Duval. They were almost constantly meeting by awkwardly contrived “accidents” when M. Duval was visiting Maggie. Though the doctor was often rude and suspicious, the kind-hearted Frenchman, ignoring his rudeness and suspicion, was the very essence of politeness. One afternoon Dr. Norris ran across him more abrupt and brusque than ever, as he was leaving Maggie’s rooms; and Monsieur was, as usual, charmed to meet his très chèr ami.
They walked a little way together, the Frenchman chatting and the doctor silent. They passed the doctor’s house, and with a manifest effort he asked his companion in.
Monsieur Duval gracefully accepted the ungracious invitation. In the doctor’s den they smoked cigarettes for a while in silence.
Then Fred broke out abruptly: “Would you mind, Monsieur, if I asked you a rude question?”
The other held up his small hands with a pretty deprecatory gesture.
“Monsieur! rude! It is impossible!”\n“Well, I’ll try, anyhow. Do you mean to marry Miss Norris?”
“You flatter me by the question, Monsieur, flatter me in a way you dream not of. But, alas! no. Mademoiselle is très charming. She is deserving of any man’s love, Monsieur will observe; of any man’s love. I too love her, but it is not the love she needs. Be very sure, Monsieur, if I should offer myself for a husband she refuse, and I do not mean to offer.”
“I wish I could be quite sure,” said Fred, with a sudden cordiality of manner to which the genial Frenchman responded.
He had been fluttering about the room like an inquisitive bird. Suddenly he lit upon a stamp album, half hidden by a pile of books on a side table.
“And this—it is yours?” he said, turning over the leaves rapidly. “It is a very pretty collection.”
The doctor seemed a little confused at the question, “No, it is not mine,” he said, hesitatingly. “I believe it is Miss Vivian’s. She comes to my den and she left that album, asking me to look over it.”
“Mademoiselle is esprit de monsieur — is it not?”
“See here, Duval. You are a decent little chap enough, though I didn’t always think so, and you mean no harm; but we don’t talk like that of young ladies in this country. If an Englishman said that I’d give him a very different answer.”
“But I have my eyes, monsieur, and I see Mademoiselle is très belle, and she speak low and blush when Monsieur speak to her, and she look at Monsieur just so.”
Monsieur Duval gave a very lifelike imitation of “the bashful maiden’s sidelong glance of love.”
Norris could hardly refrain from smiling, though he was annoyed too.
“D——n it, Monsieur,” he said, “drop it;  don’t talk any more of that rot.”
“But Monsieur will bring the beautiful young lady back her album, is it not?” the Frenchman persisted insinuatingly.
“You may bring it back to the beautiful young lady yourself if you choose.”
“I make Monsieur a thousand thanks, and he? He will go to prescribe for Mademoiselle Norris, who is not very well.”
Monsieur Duval slipped out of the room with a French parody of a wink.
“Cute little chap,” admitted Dr. Norris as he followed a moment afterwards, taking the direction of “the studio.”
Carrie Vivian was delighted to see Monsieur Duval in her own gay little sitting-room. But when she saw the stamp album in his hand, her face fell.
“You bring a message from Dr. Norris?” she said.
“Mademoiselle very much admires Monsieur the doctor—is it not?”
“Don’t talk nonsense”—with a very becoming blush. “What’s the message?”
“There is no message. He sends back the album, that is all.”
“But he has looked through it?”
“No, mademoiselle, he has not. But I have, and I found it wonderful. In it there is a blue Mauritius—the most rare and beautiful. Is it that Mademoiselle desire that Monsieur the doctor should know how rich she is?”
“Monsieur, you are pleased to be rude.”
“Mademoiselle, I will be pleased to be more ruder. The stamp—it is not genuine. It is a forgery; very clever. I, Monsieur Duval, am a detective and I know. It is a dangerous game that you play, Mademoiselle!”
“It is a lie,” cried the frightened girl. “I myself cut the stamp off a genuine envelope from the Mauritius. I have other envelopes with the stamps on.”
“That is not easy to believe, Mademoiselle.”
“But I can prove it to be true.”
“It would be rude to contradict a lady.”
“If I show the envelopes, will you believe the stamps genuine?”
“If you show me genuine envelopes with stamps on I will believe.”
“And you will go?”
“And I will go, oh most certainly.”
She rushed impetuously to a locked drawer and drew out a packet of seven old envelopes. Six had blue Mauritius stamps; the other a square hole where the stamp had been.
Monsieur Duval examined them carefully, and fitted the loose stamp to the place it had been cut from.
“Mademoiselle is quite right,” he said, “the envelopes are genuine and the stamps,” and he calmly proceeded to put stamps and envelopes into his pocket.
“Pardon me, Monsieur,” said Carrie with an angry dart at his hand.
“You will pardon me, Mademoiselle,” he replied, evading her. He drew a facsimile of one of the envelopes from his pocket and held it before her eyes.
“The stamps are not forged, it is true, but it is worse that—they are stolen. I go to restore them to the owner, your good friend Miss Norris.”
Before the affrighted girl could find words to answer him, Frenchman, envelopes, and stamps were gone together.
He found, as he anticipated, Dr. Norris prescribing for his cousin Maggie, who already looked very much the better for his prescription.
“Ma chère,” he began abruptly, “I am come to say good-bye. It is sudden, but what wish you? My work is done. You will not see Monsieur Duval any more.”
“I am very sorry,” Maggie began. But he spoke again.
“I have a leetle request before I go. You will make for me the silhouette. Often you have ask and I refuse. Now it is my turn, I ask; you will not refuse?”
“I will be delighted; it won’t take a moment. Turn your head just like that and keep steady.”
She caught up a sheet of black paper and scissors and began rapidly—snip; snip; snip. Suddenly the scissors dropped with a crash.
“Dora!” she shrieked, half crying, half laughing. “It’s Dora!”
“Precisely, my dear,” said Dora Myrl’s voice in the most matter of fact tones. “I guessed your scissors would find me out. It is so hard to disguise one’s profile.”
“But what did you mean by it?”
“Well, in the first place I wanted to get the doctor to prescribe for you, and then I wanted to get you a handsome fee to pay for the prescription.”
She put a tiny packet into Maggie’s hand.
“Oh!” Maggie cried, “the seven old stamps off my old letters.”
“Don’t turn up your nose, Mag, at those little scraps of paper. They are more valuable than any substance of the same weight in the known world; diamonds are simply not in it. The last of those stamps that was sold fetched a thousand pounds in the open market. Seven thousand pounds, there or thereabouts, is a tidy little fortune to begin housekeeping on.”
“Oh! Dora; how dare you!”
“I have eyes in my head, my dear, tolerably sharp ones, I’m glad to say. Maggie! Maggie! what a hypocrite you are. Didn’t you often tell me you’d never marry?”
“Oh, no! Dora,” Maggie whispered, laughing and blushing, “not that exactly. I said I would never change my name.”
“And I guessed what you meant by that, my dear, when I sent Dr. Norris to prescribe for you.”