IT would be a great charity if you could and would, Miss Myrl.”
“Is that a professional reason, Sir Gregory?” asked Dora mockingly.
“You are always tempting me to forget your profession and then catching me up. Well, then, I’ll talk strict business.”
“Sugar?” she interrupted, poising the lump in the silver tongs over the delicate Sevres cup, for Sir Gregory had “dropped in promiscuous” to afternoon tea. Pleasure, not business, seemed her mission in the world. Her pale blue tea gown that matched her complexion to a wish was the triumph of a Paris dressmaker. There was a vague glimpse of a neat foot and ankle at the skirts. Her glossy hair was coiled in the latest fashion, and her bright eyes sparkled with gay humour. Sir Gregory was to be pardoned if in this bright young beauty he forgot the lady detective.
“What did you say?” he asked bewildered. “Oh! yes. If you please”—and the sugar subsided from the tongs into his tea.
“It’s no use, Miss Myrl, I cannot find the proper business tone with you. May I talk to you as a friend?”
“I don’t want to talk to you or think of you in any other way, Sir Gregory!”
“Well, I come to beg of you to go down and stay with this girl Annie Lovel as a friend at her uncle’s place Riverside.”
“Why! you’ve told me that before, but you haven’t told me why?”
“You knew her uncle—Sir Randal Lovel?”
“The great book collector? I know nothing of him.”
“And his nephew Albert Lovel?”
“I know nothing good of him.”
“There isn’t any good to know. From his boyhood be was a bad lot, not wild but vicious. He was expelled from three schools, and sent down from the university. He got leave to retire from the army, and there was a story of cheating at cards. Other and still worse stories steamed up from his trail through the Continent. There is talk of a fatal duel and a pistol fired before the signal. He has been twice co-respondent in the divorce courts. A girl committed suicide the other day whom—— but I need not go into those scandals. You may take it from me that Albert Lovel—Albert the Good, as he is generally called—is the gayest, brightest, handsomest, most accomplished, and most utterly heartless and conscienceless young reprobate in the three kingdoms.
“But Sir Randal Lovel believed in him, Miss Myrl, when everyone else ceased to believe. You see he is the baronet’s heir. Sir Randal is proud of his family. He is immensely wealthy, the estate is not entailed, and it was to the young reprobate’s interest to throw dust in his eyes if he could. It was easy enough. Sir Randal leads a secluded life; he is credulous of good, as all high-minded honourable men are, and loth to believe evil. This gay young reprobate ran down occasionally to shoot the pheasants at Riversdale, and make distant and respectful love to his cousin Miss Annie Lovel, and Sir Randal was delighted.
“But the crash came at last, as it was bound to come. Some story reached Sir Randal’s ears with clear proof behind it—the story of some man whom Albert had swindled or woman he had ruined. The baronet was roused to inquiries, and the whole truth of his nephew’s career came out. There is nothing more terrible than a quiet man enraged. Albert was sent for. There was a stormy interview. The barricade of subterfuge and falsehood which the young reprobate set up was swept away in the torrent of the old man’s righteous anger.
“Sir Randal swore to disinherit him. Then ‘Albert the Good’—hypocrisy having proved worthless—laughed openly in his face.
“‘Threatened men live long,’ he said, ‘and <span class="italic">vice versa</span>’—and went jauntily from the room and out of the house.
“Next morning Sir Randal sent to London for his solicitor to change his will, and next evening Sir Randal was shot as he sat in his study by an open window that looked out upon the lawn.”
“Shot by whom?”
“Who can tell? No sound of firearms was heard, but the servant, coming by a lucky accident into the room, found him lying back in his chair half-conscious, bleeding and moaning, but too feeble to cry out.
“The wound proved not to be serious. The bullet had struck his watch, smashed it, and glanced off into the muscles of the left shoulder. It came so near the skin that it was easily extracted.
“Sir Randal insisted on hushing the whole thing. In a week he was able to be up and about again. He countermanded the summons to his solicitor. ‘Too dangerous,’ he muttered without further explaining himself, and he drew a will in his own handwriting, and the doctor and clergyman from the neighbouring town witnessed it. No one saw the will, but it is assumed that it left all his property to his niece. He locked the will up in the strong safe in his study, and carried the key always about with him in an inner pocket. Every morning it was his habit to take it out and glance through it, as if to assure himself of its safety.”
“Nothing happened to the will?” Dora asked. “So far your story is very exciting, Sir Gregory.”
“I trust the end of it will prove tame and commonplace,” he said. “But there was just one other incident I have to tell you of; a burglary—say rather an attempted burglary. There was a skilful and determined effort made to break open the safe. But the alarm was given in time, and the burglar had to fly before he was half through with his work. Don’t be impatient with an old proser, Miss Myrl, I’m just at the end of my story. Sir Randal died suddenly the day before yesterday!”
“Oh!”
“No, no! It wasn’t that. I mean it was a natural death from pneumonia, though the doctor thought that the bullet wound had probably hastened his end. Now this poor little girl I told you of is left alone in that great house with a great pack of honest stupid servants around her, but no friend. She has written to me, but I am chained to London at present. I want someone to go down at once—a woman, if possible, with a kind heart and quick wit; a woman that can look after herself and others.”
“Meaning me,” said Dora, dropping him a gay little curtsey; “flattered, I’m sure!”
“It’s the plain truth, Miss Myrl!”
“Prettier and prettier. There is no resisting you, Sir Gregory. What train can I go by?”
“There is a fast train in an hour and a half, if that’s not too soon. You will get there in less than two hours, in time for dinner at seven. I will wire at once and you will be met at the railway-station, which is only three miles from the house.”
She was met at the station with an open two-horse phaeton by Miss Lovel herself, who welcomed her heartily; and they drove together through the avenue of lime trees, two massive walls of verdure, in the red glory of an autumn sunset, to the great house that reared its tall gables amongst the woods.
Before the dinner was over the two girls were as old friends. Miss Lovel had been sorely tried by anxiety and sorrow, for her dead uncle had always been to her a father. With anxiety and sorrow, fear was mingled. She feared her handsome cousin as the devout Christian of the Middle Ages feared the devil, not without admiration in her terror.
Prepared from what she had heard to give her confidence to her companion, she was captivated from the very first by Dora, whose alert cheerfulness was a tonic to her nerves and heart. Her pale cheeks flushed and her sad eyes brightened as they sat chatting together in the drawing-room, and for the first time for months, she looked what she naturally was, a pretty light-hearted country lass whose whole nature was attuned to joy, not sorrow.
An hour after dinner Dora caught herself in the midst of a lively description of London Society life, and looked at her watch.
“To business!” she said briskly. “We must keep the wolf from the door. You know the wolf I mean, Miss Lovel?”
“Call me Annie!”
“All right, Annie. I want you to show me the room where the safe is. Sir Gregory has told me the whole story, you see!”
Dora had brought an ingenious little toy of her own contriving from London; an electric battery and bell and a coil of isolated wire. In five minutes she had arranged it so that a touch at the door or the window of the study would set the bell ringing. There was no alarm during the night. The bell never so much as tinkled till the first touch of the chambermaid’s hand on the knob sprang the trap with a sudden jangling in the morning.
The girls had a pleasant and quiet morning together, but in the afternoon there was a somewhat startling surprise.
Dora chanced to be on the drawing-room landing when there came a modest ring and a gentle knock at the hall door.
She waited and saw the visitor give his card to the footman. She had never seen him before, but she guessed his identity in a moment, and ran down the stairs to greet him.
“Mr. Albert Lovel, I presume?”
He bowed with perfect grace and courtesy. “Sir Albert Lovel is now the absolutely correct name,” he answered lightly, “but, I don’t want to stand on ceremony with you, Miss Myrl; call me just what you choose!”
Dora was startled by his recognition, but kept her surprise out of her face.
“You know me then?” she cried in a tone as light as his own.
“Of course I do. I never forget a face, particularly, if you will forgive me saying so, a pretty face. I only saw you once. It was at a race at which I lost money and you won a reputation. I’m not likely to forget the charming lady detective!”
In his manner raillery and flattery were delicately blended. He was an altogether charming Apollo in a perfectly fitting cycling suit. His lips wore a gay smile; his dark eyes sparkled with merriment; his voice was musical as a flute. Yet withal he was a manly man; the kind of man that captures girls wholesale.
“I know what you are here for, of course, Miss Myrl,” he went on gaily. “You are the wolf-dog—forgive the comparison—sent down to guard the dear little pet lamb Annie, and I’m the wolf. Well! <span class="italic">en garde</span>!”
“Is that a challenge, Sir Albert?”
“A friendly challenge to a game of skill, nothing more. Ah! here comes my charming cousin!” There was a subtle impalpable change in his manner and voice, a vague suggestion of tenderness and devotion, as he raised his cousin’s hand to his lips, and Dora noticed Annie’s face flushed as their eyes met.
“I come to condole with you, my cousin,” he said, and to Dora’s ears there was a faint accent of mockery in his voice that Annie’s ears missed.
“Is it not better to be quite frank, Sir Albert?” Dora asked.
“Certainly!” he answered, without the smallest change of voice; “I was about to tell my cousin I have come specially to hear the will read.”
“It will not be read for three days,” Dora answered quickly, “Mr. Bennett cannot come before.”
“Till then,” he said, “I must claim the hospitality of Riversdale. As the nearest male relative and presumptive heir of Sir Randal I might, perhaps, claim it as a right. I prefer to request it as a favour.”
Annie looked irresolutely at Dora. “It’s a favour you cannot well refuse,” Dora said, answering the look.
Sir Albert bowed his acknowledgments. As the three passed the door of the study where the safe was, Dora threw it open. There was a man inside with a frieze jacket and gaiters seated in a big armchair, with a double-barrelled fowling-piece between his knees.
“One of the keepers, Sir Albert,” Dora explained; “we keep one or other of them here ready night and day. You may have heard of the attempted burglary. Don’t you think this is a wise precaution?”
“Extremely,” he answered frankly, exactly as if he meant it.
To both girls Sir Albert proved a most delightful companion; gentle, sympathetic, cheerful—but not too cheerful. There was a vague hint of lovemaking in his tone to Annie, but nothing tangible. His manner to Dora was that of frank comradeship. Withal he was so pleasant to look at and talk to that she had to keep her memory fixed on what he really was to save herself from the peril of liking and trusting him. The girls had a rude awakening from their pleasant dream on the morning of the second day.
Dora was in the garden pacing the central walk, luxuriating, like a cat, in the bright warm sunshine, which brought out the colour and odour of the old-fashioned flowers, when Annie came running to her pale and frightened.
“The key of the safe has been stolen!” she cried.
“When?” Dora asked. “Do try to keep your wits and nerves steady, my dear!” for Annie was shaking like a leaf in the wind.
“I can’t in the least tell when. It was kept, as you know, in the secret drawer of the desk in the dining-room. I put it there when uncle died, and I have not looked at it since. Something suddenly tempted me to look for it to-day. I half expected to find it was gone, but I was horribly frightened all the same!”
“Being frightened won’t help a bit. The first thing is to see if the safe has been opened. Come along!”
They went straight to the study. The gamekeeper was there stolidly vigilant.
Dora gave just one glance at the safe door.
“All right so far!” she said shortly.
“But how do you know?” Annie asked.
“It is so simple it’s not worth telling. I just gummed a hair across the slit of the door, and it is there still. Now to find the key. Where is Sir Albert?”
“In his own silting-room. He’s been there all the morning since breakfast.”
“With the door locked on the inside, I dare say. Is there a second key for the room?”
“The housekeeper has one, but——”
“Well, get it for me like a good girl,” Dora interrupted Dora persuasively. “I don’t want to trouble Sir Albert more than I can help.”
With the key in her hand she came softly to the door and turned the handle without a sound. As she anticipated, it was locked on the inside. She slipped the key in, shooting the other out before it, and flung the door open. Sir Albert started from his seat with a curse. For a second his face was devilish with rage. But he instantly recovered his composure. With his left hand he caught something bright from the table and thrust it into the pocket of his smoking jacket, as he turned to face Dora with a smile on his lips and in his eyes.
“This is indeed an unexpected treat, Miss Myrl,” he said. Dora glanced past him at the table at which he had been seated. There was a spirit lamp still burning with a crucible set upon it, and beside the lamp on the table a blowpipe and some fragments of bright metal, and what looked like chips of very thick brown paper. Amongst this litter a handsome pipe case in green morocco was laid. Close to his chair was his green morocco travelling-bag, open, and brilliant with fillings. On another corner of the table a writing-case from the travelling-bag also lay open, with scraps of paper, pens of several sizes, and an ink eraser, all littered about.
With a smile and a word of apology, Dora crossed the Room. “What a handsome pipe case!” she said innocently, stretching out her hand to it.
But Sir Albert was too quick for her. He caught up the case before her fingers reached it. “You mustn’t touch it, Miss Myrl,” he cried, “it smells abominably of stale tobacco,” and with that he thrust it into one of the recesses of the bag so violently that it broke through the green silk and went down between the lining and the leather.
“You have been busy at some literary work, Sir Albert, I see,” Dora went on, without seeming to notice the abruptness of his movement.
“Yes,” he answered carelessly, “I have been trying to imitate my uncle’s handwriting. Confess that is what you suspect, Miss Myrl; so I may as well make a clean breast of it.” But as he spoke he gathered up the fragments of loose paper and snapped down the lid of the spring ink-bottle and closed the writing case. Then he glanced at the lighted spirit lamp and the crucible in which the white metal simmered.
“I was making bullets for my air gun,” he went on calmly. “They must fit perfectly tight to be effective, so I cast them myself.”
If she remembered at that moment the cowardly shot that struck his uncle down, her face showed no sign.
“Oh! it is I owe you an explanation, Sir Albert,” she said sweetly. “I came to tell you that the key of the safe has been lost, or rather stolen. Miss Lovel is nervous about it. I thought you might——”
“Oh! Of course, of course,” he cried graciously. “I’ll come at once to help to look for it.”
In five minutes he had found the key for them under the writing desk in whose secret drawer Miss Lovel had supposed it hidden.
“You are really very clever, Sir Albert,” Dora said naively, as he handed the key to Annie, and he looked her straight in the eyes and laughed out loud—a pleasant musical laugh.
That same evening he caught her in one of the hothouses in the far end of the garden, where he had strolled out for a smoke, with a big hammer in her hand pounding some fragments of glass to powder on the flagged floor.
“Why! Miss Myrl!” he cried, “what do you call this?”
“The mousetrap! marry how? tropically,” Dora quoted demurely, as she swept some of the white powder into a paper and put it in her pocket.
Then he laughed again—a puzzled little laugh this time. “Miss Myrl!” he said suddenly, “you interest me much. Could we not play this little game as partners and divide the stakes. We two together would be hard to beat?”
“Oh! no, Sir Albert,” was the gay reply, “I’m on the other side. Remember Miss Lovel is my partner; we are playing for the championship.”
Next afternoon the solicitor, Mr. Bennett, and with him Sir Gregory, came down for the reading of the will. Dora could have sworn the safe had not been opened in the interval.
Still, she felt a sharp pang of anxiety as the solicitor took the document into his hand. But there was no need for it; the will was concise and clear. Apart from a few legacies to old friends and servants, he left all the testator died possessed of to his “beloved niece Annie Lovel.”
Dora breathed a deep sigh of relief.
The thing was done, not to be undone. The will was wholly in the testator’s handwriting, the witnesses unimpeachable. The game was over, and her clever opponent seemed not to have made a single effective move.
This frightened and puzzled her a little, and she had a consultation with the solicitor and Sir Gregory Grant.
“Yes,” the solicitor said, “you are quite right, Miss Myrl, in thinking that a copy of the will can be proved if the original is destroyed. It can be even proved on parol evidence. I have heard of Mr. Albert Lovel, who has not? Albert the Good, ha! ha! Albert the Best; Sir Albert now—I beg his pardon, and I suppose he would have no objection to the estates to keep up the title. But there is not the shadow of a chance for him; however, I will bring a certified copy of the will back with me to London, as you desire it.”
“May I take a photograph, meantime?” Dora asked. “I have brought my camera down with me.”
“It will be quite unnecessary,” said the solicitor.
But Sir Gregory insisted that in dealing with “Albert the Good” no precaution was unnecessary, and the photograph was taken.
The chief marvel of all was the behaviour of Sir Albert Lovel in the delicate and trying position in which he was placed. He made no attempt to conceal his disappointment, but he bore it like a gentleman. His congratulation of the heiress was in the best possible taste. “I must confess,” he said, “I should wish to have found my own name with yours in the will. But it comforts me a great deal to think if this fortune is not mine, it is yours.” Nor was there any suggestion of lovemaking in his manner, which was manly, kind, and cousinly. Annie pitied him, and would have handed him one half of the great fortune at once. But Sir Gregory Grant as the executor, and Mr. Bennett as the solicitor objected, and Sir Albert, when it came to his ears, point blank refused.
There were many business details to be seen to at Riversdale, and Sir Gregory and the solicitor stayed for a week before they returned with the will and copy to London. Sir Albert went with them. He had won his way in spite of themselves and their knowledge of him into the suburbs, so to speak, of their confidence. Before they parted Sir Gregory offered, of his own accord, a loan of five hundred pounds, which he frankly accepted, casually remarking that he needed it very particularly.
Dora remained a few days longer at Riversdale, relieved, but still bewildered at the turn affairs had taken. 
On her return to London she look a five weeks’ trip to the Continent, and the whole case slipped from her mind. She arrived back in London on a Friday night.
On Saturday afternoon, in her own cozy little sitting-room, she lazily opened the “Westminster Gazette,” and in the most prominent place on the front page her eye lit instantly on this sensational headline:    
LOVEL v. LOVEL
THE GREAT WILL CASE
A MILLION AT STAKE
EXTRAORDINARY DÉNOÛMENT
IS IT A FORGERY?
Her eye ran rapidly over the paragraph:
“The Lovel v. Lovel will case tried at the Oxford Assizes before Judge Smith and a special jury to-day suddenly assumed an unexpected and sensational aspect. It will be remembered that the late Sir Randal Lovel by a will wholly in his own handwriting left his entire fortune, estimated at over a million sterling, to his niece Miss Annie Lovel, disinheriting his nephew Sir Albert Lovel. There was said to be circumstances that made this bequest natural. The will was in regular form, the testamentary capacity of Sir Randal was indisputable, and the witnesses of highest respectability. It was a matter of surprise when at the  last moment Sir Albert entered a caveat. But the advisers of the young lady had no fear for the result, and the proof of the will was regarded as merely formal. The plaintiffs closed their case in five minutes; none of the witnesses were cross-examined. Counsel for the defence then put the will into the hands of the eminent expert Mr. Crosscaden, and asked him to examine the signature. He examined it closely through a pocket microscope and pronounced it genuine. Thereupon it seemed as if the case had closed. But glancing through the body of the will witness made an astounding discovery. At the words ‘niece Annie’ there had been plainly a most skilful erasure and re-writing. The letters ‘iece’ in ‘niece’ and the letters ‘nnie’ in ‘Annie’ had plainly been most cleverly forged in the handwriting of the testator. The suggestion was that the word had originally stood ‘nephew Albert,’ but this it was quite unnecessary to consider, as in the event of the will being set aside the property—which is almost entirely real—goes to Sir Albert as heir-at-law. All in court were astounded at the discovery, and all sorts of rumours were rife as to the identity of the forger. At the  request of counsel for the plaintiff the case was adjourned until Monday morning, but there can be now no doubt as to the result.”
Dora dropped the paper and picked up a Bradshaw. “I’ll catch it by a rush,” she muttered. “A hansom, quick!” she said to the servant who answered the electric bell, while she packed a travelling-bag neatly in spite of her haste. She was at the door the same instant as the hansom.
“Paddington!” she cried, jumping in; “a sovereign if you catch the train!”
That evening she had an interview at his hotel with Sir Gregory Grant and Mr. Bennett, the plaintiff’s solicitor, who were not more amazed than delighted to see her. Subsequently all three had a consultation with the leading Counsel for plaintiff, Mr. Percival Carver, Q.C.
The court doors were besieged on Monday morning, and the instant the crowd filled every available crevice as completely as a torrent fills a reservoir.
Dora was seated beside the plaintiff’s solicitor, in her neat travelling costume and coquettish little hat, looking as much out of place as a butterfly amongst grubs. But it might have been noticed that the leading counsel for the plaintiff consulted her much more frequently than his solicitor.
“Now! Mr. Carver,” said the judge sharply, as he took his seat on the bench.
But Sir Julius Tulliver, Q.C., Solicitor-General, who led for the defendant, interposed:
“Your pardon for one moment, my lord,” he said deferentially. He was brimming over with delight of anticipated triumph. “Sir Albert Lovel, the defendant in this case, has this morning been served with a very extraordinary document—a <span class="italic">sub pœna duce tecum</span>—to produce his travelling-bag. I merely wish to say for the information of my learned friend that Sir Albert and his travelling-bag are in court. We will have his hat case and portmanteau sent for if they should be required.”
At this there was a ripple of laughter in court. But Mr. Carver was unabashed. “I think we shall find the travelling-bag sufficient,” he said very quietly, as he took it into his hands. “Will your lordship bear with me a moment?”
Sir Julius, who knew his man, did not relish his tone.
The learned counsel felt the bag and shook it, and turned with a gratified smile to Dora. “You are right,” he said in a whisper, “it is there still.” With that he thrust his hand through a break in the silk lining of the bag, and, after some fumbling, he drew out a green morocco pipe-case and laid it beside his brief on the table. Then he took the writing case from the bag.
“The same?” he asked Dora, still in a whisper, tipping the lid of the ink-bottle with his finger.
“The same,” she answered in a whisper,
“Well? Mr. Carver,” the judge cried, a little impatiently.
“Quite ready, my lord, quite ready. Will your lordship kindly allow the expert Mr. Crosscaden to be recalled? There are just one or two questions I would like to ask him?”
“Certainly, Mr. Carver,” assented the judge.
“Mr. Crosscaden,” said Mr. Carver in his blandest tone, when the witness stepped into the box, “will you kindly examine again with that microscope of yours, if you please, the words you swear have been written into the will, and tell me do you notice anything peculiar?”
“Do you mean in the formation of the letters?” asked the witness.
“No, I mean in the quality of the ink?”
“Nothing particular,” said Mr. Crosscaden, after careful examination, “except——”
“Well! except what?”
“There are a number of particles of what look like glass in the ink. They are very minute, but they are of course quite distinct under the microscope.”
“That’s what I want. Have you ever noticed this peculiarity in ink before?”
“Never.”
“Would it, in your opinion, account for this peculiarity if someone had put ground glass into the bottle from which the ink was taken?”
“Certainly, but——”
“One moment, if you please!”
Mr. Carver dipped his pen deep into the ink-bottle of Sir Albert’s writing case, turning the point round twice. Then he wrote the word “Forger” heavily on a piece of paper he tore from his brief and handed it to the expert.
“Just look at that through the microscope,” he said; “do you find the same minute fragments of glass in that ink?”
“Certainly, they are quite distinct, but I cannot explain how it happens.”
“We will come to the explanation later on. Will you kindly look at this enlarged photograph of the will through the microscope? The words ‘niece Annie’ if you please. Do you find any trace here of erasure or re-writing?”
“None whatever.”
“If they had been there when the photograph was taken the camera would have found and shown them, I presume?”
“Certainly.”
“That will do, Mr. Crosscaden.”
“Mr. Carver,” said the judge, “I think I follow the drift of your question. But I should like to know——”
“If your lordship would pardon me for a moment, I would respectfully ask your lordship to examine this document.”
He handed up the pipe-case to the bench.
“Your lordship observes I have not opened it since I took it from the defendant’s travelling bag?”
His lordship opened the case. Inside it was a neatly constructed mould of a large key made of flan—that brown papier-mache on which stereotypes are cast.
“In the name of wonder what is this?” cried his lordship, holding it out for the inspection of the jury.
“We hope to prove it is a mould, my lord,” Mr. Carver answered quietly, “a mould of the key of the safe in which the will was kept in Riversdale. With your lordship’s permission I shall not trouble the court or the jury with any lengthened speech. This young lady”—he indicated Dora with a gesture—“Miss Dora Myrl, the lady detective of whom your lordship may have heard, was in Riversdale when the defendant in this case arrived after his uncle’s death. She surprised the defendant, as she believed, in the act of casting a duplicate of the key of the safe which was missing at the time. He thrust the mould into his bag so violently that it burst through the lining of his bag, where fortunately it was allowed to remain. Suspecting some attempt to tamper with the will, she poured ground glass into the ink-bottle which she thought it likely he would use. The photograph of the will was taken by her just after the will was read, and, as I venture to submit before this most ingenious fraud was perpetrated by the defendant, who remained in the house a week afterwards with a duplicate key of the safe in his possession. I shall now, with your lordship’s permission, offer the court rebutting evidence in the case. The first witness I call is the defendant himself.”
There was a pause.
“Call the defendant!” said the judge.
“Sir Albert Evans Lovel!” yelled the crier.
No response.
“Sir Albert Evans Lovel!” louder than before.
“My lord,” the junior counsel for the plaintiff said, “I saw the defendant leave the court a moment ago through the side door when the evidence about the photograph was taken.”
“Call him outside!” said the judge sternly.
“Sir Albert Evans Lovel” was shouted at the door.
Still no response.
The judge turned to the leading counsel for the plaintiff.
“Mr. Carver,” he said, “I do not think we need trouble you further in the case. What say you, gentlemen of the jury?”
“We are unanimous, my lord,” replied the foreman. “We find in favour of the will.”