IT </span>was a vision made real: conceived in the heart of the poet; created by the patient genius of the artist. It captured, not the eye merely, but the soul of all who gazed on it. “Life and Love” he called his work, and it justified the name. On the right of the great picture a stream came coursing down from the misty hilltops, widening and deepening as it came, till in the centre foreground it flowed a broad clear river “of balmy liquor crystalline hue” through overhanging and interlacing trees. Wild birds fluttered through branches, and wild flowers bloomed on the banks. Down the centre of the softly flowing stream, dappled in light and shade, a boat came gliding with a maiden and her lover. Their eyes were on each other, and the light of love was on their faces. They were alone—they two—in the beautiful world where love was everything, and the gold of the sunshine and the ripple of the waters and the gleam of the flowers and the songs of the wild birds were the vague accessories of their delicious dream. The eyes of the lovers could not see where the river, issuing from the pleasant wood, flowed in rougher channels and swifter current down into the mist-covered ocean.
Assuredly Godfrey Morland had at last achieved his triumph. It had come to him after long waiting and much labour. Here was a picture to capture the eyes of the critics and the heart of humanity. It was large and bold, for his genius loved a wide canvas, but withal it was painted with the patient fidelity of a miniature even to the tint on the petal of the primrose and the gleam on the wing of the goldfinch. So close was the scene and so real that the branches seemed to hang out into clear air, and one was tempted to lean forward and dip a lazy hand in the flow of the limpid water. The heart ached with vague longings at the calm loveliness of the scene.
Three years ago the artist had sat before a wide vacant canvas and dreamed it all, and behold, after three years of patient labour, his vision took form and light and beauty and was visible to the eyes of the world. When his artist friends praised his picture—more by their eyes than by their lips—or when he stood alone in his vacant studio gazing almost reverently on his masterpiece as a thing distinct from himself, his heart rejoiced with the triumph of artistic creation that brings men nearest to God.
But success meant more even than artistic triumph for the young painter. It meant human love and happiness as well. The face of the maiden in the picture with the rose leaf cheeks and eyes of forget-me-not blue was no ideal beauty. Alice Lyle, who had loved him when the world frowned, was now to share his triumphs.
No rivalries marred the full and rounded harmony of his happiness. His comrades all rejoiced with him in his triumph, and Ernest Beauchamp, his chief and dearest friend, was most hearty of all in his rejoicing.
Yet perhaps, if anywhere, a little twinge of jealousy might fairly have been pardoned. For Ernest and Godfrey were artists and had worked together, and Ernest had easily eclipsed his friend at first.
His work was of that light and graceful school, with a touch of sardonic humour, that appealed to the fashionable world. His reputation was quickly made.
But now, with this picture that appealed straight to the human heart, Godfrey had outdistanced him for ever.
Nor was Ernest less his rival in love than in art. It was he who had first found Alice Lyle amid the roses of a country rectory, and he had wooed her in his own sportive fashion—half jest, half earnest—till Godfrey came and saw and won.
But still his sunny temper seemed unruffled. He was loudest in his praise of the great picture, and he insisted that he should be his friend’s best man at the approaching marriage.
“Alice must have a last chance,” he said jestingly, “should she resume her good taste and good sense even at the critical moment before the altar, I’ll be there and ready.”
The picture, which still stood in the artist’s studio, soon grew to be the common talk of the artistic world of London. The dealers flocked to the place as miners to a newly discovered gold country. Foremost amongst them all came the king of picture dealers, Jacob Goldmirk. A staid looking man, though his life was full of excitement and adventure. He had discovered miracles in reputed daubs. He had bought old masters for old songs in every corner of Europe, and made the fortunes of a score of picture painters while he had made his own bigger than all the rest combined.
Godfrey had refused all offers for his masterpiece till after the exhibition; in his heart he loathed the thought of parting with it. But Goldmirk had purchased a battle-piece which Godfrey had painted just before. It was a fine bold canvas, just a shade smaller than the last, and full of life and power. The subject—the Charge of the Irish Brigade at Fontepoy—had hurt the susceptibilities of the British public, and so the picture had hung unsold. But now Goldmirk had purchased it for a fair price. “A fashionable painter, my dear fellow,” he said, “may paint just what he likes, and it is sure to sell. You’ll be the fashion presently.”
They had a little supper in the studio to celebrate the purchase—just three, Ernest Beauchamp, Jacob Goldmirk, and Godfrey. They sat late without lamps till the white light of the full moon stole in through the broad window, and found here and there bits of colour and life and beauty on the pictures round the walls.
Mr. Goldmirk bubbled over with good humour like the champagne he sipped so freely. But Ernest Beauchamp was in a meditative mood, and looked out silently through the open window, bathing his soul, as he said, in the moonlight. The room grew chilly, and Goldmirk at last called to him to shut the window and fasten it, like a good chap. Godfrey added, “I don’t want burglars after the picture.”
The words have a certain importance in view of what followed.
Next morning, after breakfast, Godfrey started for the country. He was under promise to bring Alice to afternoon tea, and give her a last look at the masterpiece before it went to be framed.
He left at eleven. About half-past twelve Mr. Goldmirk called to see him, and was told he had gone to the country.
“I’ll wait for him,” he said, “in the studio.”
He threw off his light overcoat, planted a chair opposite his purchased battle-piece, planted himself astride on it, lit a huge cigar, and was left smoking.
He was smoking still, but had drawn a fat picture catalogue from his pocket, and was noting the prices with a stump of lead pencil when Godfrey and Alice came into the studio two hours later.
Goldmirk started from his seat and turned his round good-humoured face half over his shoulder.
“Halloa! Godfrey,” he cried, “so you have sent the masterpiece to be framed already. Beg pardon! didn’t see you had a lady with you. How do you do, Miss Lyle?”
But Godfrey Morland did not hear the last words, for one quick glance told him that the easel at the far end of the room was vacant.
His picture was gone!
“My God! it has been stolen,” he gasped out. He turned pale as a ghost, and Alice clung trembling to his arm. But the shrewd picture dealer kept his wits about him.
“Nonsense! man,” he said, “don’t look so frightened, Miss Lyle. One cannot steal a big picture like that as easily as a postage stamp. It may have been shoved somewhere out of the way. Let us have a look around!”
The honest confidence in his face and voice were as a cordial to Godfrey. They all three made a search of the room. But their hopes quickly evaporated. The picture was nowhere to be found. They found, indeed, the large wooden frame on which the canvas had been stretched lying against the wall without any attempt at concealment. The picture had not been cut, but stripped from the frame by drawing the tacks that held it. Not a particle of the canvas remained. Lying on the floor close to the window were a claw-headed hammer, a turnscrew, and a sharp scissors. The meaning of the hammer was plain enough, but the scissors puzzled them at first.
Godfrey startled the others by a sudden cry as he came to the window. The fastening was undone. He threw up the sash and found a knotted rope hanging from the iron work of the balcony into the street. There was a running noose on the rope, and apparently it had been flung up from the street until it had taught over the spiked heads of the railing of the balcony. The method, at least, of the robbery now seemed plain enough. But who was the thief?
A moment afterwards Alice made a still more startling discovery. It was a large handsome mother-of-pearl button which Godfrey instantly recognised as a button from the brown velvet studio jacket of his friend Ernest Bcauchamp. He took it from Alice’s hand gingerly, as if it burned his fingers.
“I don’t believe a word of it,” he cried vehemently, answering the unspoken accusation in his own mind.
“Don’t believe what?” said Goldmirk, coming up to him. “Oh!”
He looked suspiciously at the button which Godfrey held in the palm of his hand, and which he instantly recognised.
“What is that?” asked Alice.
“Only a button from Mr. Beauchamp’s jacket,” Goldmirk said.
“Oh! no, he didn’t do it; he couldn’t do it!” she cried.
“We’ll soon know,” added Godfrey, and he sat down to his writing table and scribbled a note.
“What are you writing?” Goldmirk asked cautiously.
“A note telling Ernest the picture has been stolen.”
“Do you think it safe to—warn him?”
“Perfectly. I’d pledge my life he’ll come. But I’ll write a line to Scotland Yard at the same time.”
“One moment before you stand up,” said Alice, glancing over his shoulder; “there is a very clever woman—a lady detective, Miss Dora Myrl. I have heard wonderful stories about her. You might ask her to come.”
Godfrey wrote a third note, Alice directed it, and all three were dispatched with the servant.
“Take a hansom, John!” Godfrey said, “and lose no time.”
While John was away, yet another discovery was made, this time by Miss Lyle. In the bottom of an old cupboard she found a pile of scraps and strips of canvas, cut small with a sharp scissors, and smeared here and there with paint.
For a moment Godfrey was chilled with the thought that his great picture had been cut to pieces. But a second glance told him that the pile was not a twentieth part of the bulk of the canvas of the picture, and the fragments were let lie without more notice where they were found.
Ernest Beauchamp was the first to arrive, pale and wild-eyed with excitement.
“Stolen!” he cried excitedly, “impossible! Why, it was here while we were at supper last night. Who was in the studio since then?”
Mr. Goldmirk turned on him angrily. “I was,” he said, “for two hours. I came about twelve, and I was here when Godfrey returned at two. I never left the place for a moment; the servant can prove that.”
“Who talks of proving?” cried Ernest: “no one suspects that you stole the picture.”
“But someone stole it,” said Goldmirk doggedly.
“Why! what do you mean?”
For answer Goldmirk pointed to the button lying on the table.
“That was found on the studio floor,” he said.
Ernest started and turned pale at the sight.
“Mine!” he gasped out.
“The window was open, there was a rope hanging from the balcony,” Goldmirk went on remorselessly.
“You don’t believe this, Godfrey? You don’t believe this, Alice?” Ernest cried indignantly, with a catch as of a sudden sob in his voice.
Before either could reply Inspector Worral from Scotland Yard appeared on the scene. He shook hands with Mr. Goldmirk, whom he knew—Mr. Goldmirk knew everybody—and bowed to the others.
 “Now, if you please,” said the inspector briskly, “we’ll go to business.”
With methodical precision he picked up the clues. Mr. Goldmirk, who kept his wits about him, briefly detailed the facts of the supper the night before, his own visit to the studio that day, and the disappearance of the picture, setting out in order the various discoveries they had made. He forgot to mention the finding of the scraps of canvas, which no one regarded as important.
The inspector, with the button in his hand, stood at the open window and examined the fastening.
“It is plain it could not be opened from the outside,” he said; then, after a pause, “was it opened last night?”
Then the remembrance of Ernest’s “bath of moonlight” for the first time came back to Godfrey. He made no reply.
But Ernest Beauchamp himself interposed: “I was at the window,” he said, “but what of that? I closed and fastened it when I came away. Surely you must remember that, Godfrey? You remember, Goldmirk?”
“I remember Godfrey told you to fasten it,” said Goldmirk slowly.
The inspector shuffled on his feet and coughed an embarrassed little cough. “I hope it will come all right,” he said at last, “I do indeed. But as things stand it is my duty to arrest Mr. Beauchamp on the charge of felony.”
He laid his hand on the young painter’s shoulder. “You are not bound to say anything,” he began, relapsing into the monotonous drone of the customary formula, “but anything you do say may be used——”
“I your pardon for one moment, Inspector,” interrupted a clear musical voice from the further end of the room, and a dainty little lady stepped clear of the pictures. She was dressed in a neat tailor-made costume of some dark tartan softened by a nestling lace frill instead of a hard man’s at the throat. She wore a sailor hat with a gay ribbon and feather; the face she turned to the inspector was full of good humour.
“Miss Myrl!” he cried. The inspector’s voice was civil, almost deferential. All the same, he did not seem to be too well pleased at her sudden appearance.
“Precisely!” she answered pleasantly, “I’m a bit late, I’m afraid. Your man caught me at home.” She singled out Godfrey at a glance. “But I had two urgent letters to write first so I came over after him on my bicycle. You were all so busy you did not hear me come in, and as you were going over the case with my good friend Inspector Worral I thought it would be rude to interrupt, so I waited, using my own ears and eyes in the meantime.”
“And you think, Miss Myrl——?” the inspector began hesitatingly.
“Haven’t quite made up my mind yet. Must have a look round for myself.” She just glanced at the hammer and scissors and turnscrew that were lying on the table together. The button she took in her hand for the fraction of a second. She leant out over the balcony and examined the rope. All was done rapidly, with the alert grace of a bird. There was something bird-like, too, in the rapid glance which she cast round the room.
Straight to the fireplace she went, looking into the ashes, and fished out a few charred fragments of paint-stained canvas. These she examined with such care that Alice was temped to say timidly: “I found a lot of other pieces just like those in the bottom of that cupboard.”
“Ah,” said Dora sharply, “I heard nothing of that before.”
She seemed excited for the first time as she rummaged amongst the little pile of canvas scraps which Alice showed her, and finally bundled them all out on the floor of the studio, and set to work fitting them together. Under her deft fingers they began rapidly to assume a regular shape. Presently Alice went down on her knees, too, and helped her without a word, while the four men watched silently. The canvas scraps seemed to have been deliberately hacked to pieces. But the girls’ quick eyes and fingers found and fitted the edges and angles, as you fit a puzzle map. Gradually the pieces took the shape of a large picture frame about three inches deep, spread out on the studio floor, with two slight gaps in it where the bits of canvas had been half burned.
Dora leaped up from her work, her eyes bright with triumph.
“Well?” asked Inspector Worral jestingly, “have you found the picture?”
“Yes,” she answered with a smile, “I have found the picture!”
They looked round the vacant studio in blank amazement.
“Wait just one moment!” she said, “let us dispose of those things first. This hammer and turnscrew and scissors,” she said to the inspector, “can you suggest why the thief should leave them after him if he got away with the picture itself?”
“You mean when he got away, I suppose, Miss Myrl?”
“I said ‘if,’ Inspector, but it really does not matter. Now look at the rope. You see the knot at the noose is quite soft. If a man had gone up and down that rope the knot would be as hard as a nut.”
“Then you really think——” the inspector began, when she cut him short again.
“We are just coming to that. Oh! the button is the next on the list. You’ll appreciate the point,” turning to Alice with a smile. “You see this button has been cut off, not dropped off. The threads are still packed tight in the holes. It was not likely, was it, Inspector, that Mr. Beauchamp would cut off his own buttons for the purpose of shedding them about his friend’s studio from which a picture was stolen?
“Now I come to the canvas. We are getting ‘hot,’ Inspector, as the children say in their little games. You will notice that somebody besides myself thought those bits of canvas of importance. There was a vain attempt to burn them before they were hidden in that cupboard. Will you kindly examine that canvas frame, Mr. Morland, and tell me is it not about the size of the canvas of the missing picture; remember I have never seen the picture, though I hope soon to have that pleasure. The outside of the frame seems to me exactly the same size. And the inside? Come, it’s not fair to mystify you any further. Will someone kindly hand me that turnscrew and hammer? They must do duty for the second time to-day.”
With the tools in her hands she walked across to the big battle-piece which Mr. Goldmirk had purchased; sat on Mr. Goldmirk’s chair in front of it, and, before they guessed what she was at, loosened the tacks and took off the canvas. The stolen picture showed beneath neatly stretched on the framework, its edges clipped to make it fit unseen.
“Why!” cried Morland in sudden inspiration, “this was Goldmirk’s picture; it was to be sent home to-morrow, and mine would have gone with it. Then it was Goldmirk who——” He looked round, but Mr. Goldmirk had—to borrow a parliamentary phrase—“walked out.”