IT’S really an extraordinary story, Miss Myrl. But I suppose you are quite surfeited with marvels?”
“Don’t suppose anything of the kind, Dr. Stewart. Remember ‘increase of appetite doth grow with what it feeds on.’ I’m always hungry for excitement.”
“But your whole life is made up of strange stories!”
“Many of my stories have no end to them.”
“Why, I thought there was always a happy ending; that you never failed?”
“Don’t think nonsense then, much less talk it. Of course I fail often, but I don’t publish my failures. It’s only my successes that are worth talking about. But you are evading the real question, Dr. Stewart; what is this wonderful story of yours?”
“There’s a bad puzzle-headed ending to my story.”
“That doesn’t matter; besides, I can see you are just longing to tell it. I believe you have come here for the express purpose of telling it!”
“You have found me out,” he said, laughing a little, but all the same abashed at the girl’s shrewdness, “there is no use playing diplomacy with you. Just give me another cup of tea, and you shall have my story as far as it has got, for I do trust the end is not yet. I don’t know, Miss Myrl, if you ever happened to hear of Major-General Sir Anthony Collingswood?”
“Of course. I met him the night before last; a grizzled veteran of fifty, as strong and as glum as a bear.”
“Do you know his nephew Alan?”
“Yes, and like him.”
“That’s all right. Well, about two months ago Alan Collingswood, who had been a chum of mine at school and college, came quite unexpectedly into my study. I thought he was in India.
“‘I want you to do me a trick of your trade, old man,’ he said the moment after we had shaken hands.
“‘An operation?’ I asked.
“‘Yes, I suppose you would call it an operation.’
“‘You are chaffing, Alan,’ I said, ‘you look as fit as a Derby favourite.’
“‘I’m in dead earnest,” Alan answered; ‘look at this.’
“He rolled up coat and shirt sleeve from an arm that was like a prize-fighter’s, and showed me a healed scar two or three inches long in the fleshy part of his arm.
“‘Well, what’s the matter with that?’ I asked.
“‘Feel it,’ he said, shortly.
“Then I’m afraid I spoke a bad word, I was so surprised. I couldn’t tell what to make of it. The wound was not a bit like a gunshot wound, yet I was almost certain I could feel the bullet bedded pretty deep in the muscles above the elbow.
“Alan nodded reassuringly. ‘Oh! it’s there all right,’ he said, ‘and I just want you to cut it out.’
“‘Does it trouble you much?’ I asked.
“‘Not at all, but I want it out,’ he persisted.
“‘It’s a very simple job to cut it out,’ I said, ‘but a bit painful. Will you take chloroform?’
“‘Not a sniff. I’ll have it out with my eyes open and my mouth shut. I had no chloroform when it was put in.’
“I laughed at this as a good joke, but afterwards I found the meaning of his words.
“‘When do you want the operation performed?’ I inquired.
“‘If you’re ready now,’ he said, ‘I’m ready.’
“Don’t be frightened, Miss Myrl, I’m not going to inflict on you the details of a surgical operation. Alan bore it like a brick. He never so much as winced when the knife cut into the flesh. I made a clean incision, and picked out the ‘bullet’ with a forceps. He even smiled a queer sickly smile as I laid the ‘bullet,’ which struck me even at the time as a queer shape, carelessly aside, and brought the lips of the wound together to heal, as it did heal, by the ‘first intention.’ Meanwhile the ‘bullet’ lay neglected on the table. I saw that Alan’s eyes were on it, and thought he would like it as a memento of the incident. It was covered with blood, so I picked it up again in the forceps, dipped it in a bowl of tepid water, and brought up—the most glorious diamond I had ever seen.
“‘Hand it over, old man,’ cried Alan, laughing at my amazement.
“Then the whole story came out. Six months ago, in a remote district in India, Major-General Collingswood had the good luck to save the life of the Rajah of Ringanpore. A tiger had the Rajah on the ground, and was mouthing him as an ill-trained dog mouths a wounded partridge, when Sir Anthony walked up as cool as if he were out partridge shooting, put the muzzle of his rifle to the tiger’s ear, and blew a jagged hole through its skull. Those Collingswoods are a plucky lot.
“The Rajah was quite unusually grateful. He gave Sir Anthony a big diamond—a very big diamond—which he had dug for the purpose from a grotesque wooden idol. It proved a dangerous gift. You have read Wilkie Collins’ <span class="italic">Moonstone</span>, Miss Myrl?”
“Of course, I delight in it.”
“Well, it was the same thing over again. The natives tried to rob the Major-General of the diamond half a dozen times; twice he had a narrow squeak for his life.
“Now it chanced that Alan was coming back to England on leave, and he volunteered to carry the diamond home with him and sell it.
“Sir Anthony objected at first. ‘How do you mean to hide it, Alan?’ he said.
“‘That’s my affair, sir,’ replied the other: ‘I promise you I’ll hide it where those beggars won’t find it, anyway.’
“‘Well, take it and take care of it,’ said Sir Anthony at last. ‘It’s as much your affair as mine, or more.’ For it seems the price of the diamond was to go to pay off the incumbrances on a family property which Alan was to inherit.
“‘I will guard it as if it were part of myself,’ Alan answered laughingly.
“The surgeon of the regiment was a good friend of his—no one can know him without being a great friend of his—and he persuaded the surgeon to hide the diamond where I found it. The clean cut the keen knife made was healed within a week and gave him no trouble afterwards, and the precaution saved the diamond if not his life. He was twice waylaid by the Indians on his long journey to the coast, and stripped stark—— I mean he was thoroughly searched, but nothing was found of course.
“So the diamond came with him to England, and first saw light again in my study.
“The next thing to do was to sell it. He asked my advice, for in such matters he was as innocent as a baby.
“Luckily or unluckily, as the case may be, I knew a diamond merchant named Solomons—perhaps you have heard of him?”
“I have.”
“You seem to have heard of everybody, Miss Myrl. You may also have heard that he has the reputation of being the most liberal man in the trade; pays the very highest price per carat for all classes of stones. He is a living proof, besides, that honesty is the best policy, for he’s amazingly rich.
“To Solomons Alan went by my advice. The old man weighed the stone carefully himself before us two. It was just forty-nine carats. He frankly confessed it was a brilliant of the best shape and the very purest water, and he gave Alan on the spot a cheque for £5,700, which was the outside price at the weight.
“Alan lodged the cheque to his uncle’s credit, and sent him the docket from Mr. Solomons containing the price and weight. The letter crossed one from his uncle saying that he too had got leave, and hoped in a short time to start for England.
“So far the story has run smoothly enough. Now comes the nasty part. About a fortnight ago, without the slightest warning, Sir Anthony Collingswood, with the docket in his hand, burst into his nephew’s rooms while he was at breakfast, and denounced him as a cheat and disgrace to his family and his uniform. If it had been anyone else, Alan told me, and I don’t in the least doubt it, he’d have knocked him down on the spot. But his uncle had always been like a father to him. He kept his temper wonderfully, and his coolness made his uncle the more furious. Still, somehow Sir Anthony managed to bring out what he had come to say. He had himself, it seems, weighed the diamond carefully in India in the fine scales of his portable medicine chest, and found the weight to be sixty-five carats. This, as you know, Miss Myrl, is a still more serious difference in the question of value. The price of a diamond increases at least by the square of its weight, and even in the case of larger diamonds by the cube of the weight. If Sir Anthony was right, the diamond, instead of £5,700, was worth at least £18,000 or probably £20,000.”
“Well, well,” said Dora, a little impatiently, “you may assume I know a little about diamonds. Do tell me what happened next; your story is getting interesting!”
“Alan heard him out without a word, and then he rang the bell and sent a district messenger straight away for me.
“I found the two men in two easy chairs at the opposite ends of the room, glowering at each other.
“‘Stewart,’ said Alan, ‘this is my uncle, Major-General Sir Anthony Collingswood.’
“I bowed; Sir Anthony gave a stiff half inch nod.
“‘My uncle,’ Alan went on in the same even tone, keeping the brake hard down on his temper, ‘my uncle does me the honour to call me a cheat. It’s all about the d——d diamond,’ he broke out suddenly. ‘I wish I had never touched it.’
“‘I wish so too, sir,’ growled the uncle.
“‘Stewart,’ said Alan, pulling himself together wonderfully, ‘I want you to tell my uncle the whole story.’
“‘May I ask,’ said the Major-General, fixing me with a cold stare, but pointedly addressing his nephew, ‘who this gentleman may be—a friend of yours, I assume?’
“I was a bit riled at this, you won’t wonder, Miss Myrl. But I was determined to keep my temper well in hand. I saw, of course, that there was some trouble between uncle and nephew, and hoped to settle it.
“I told Sir Anthony my name and address and position as quietly as I could.
“‘He’ll probably say you’re lying, Stewart,’ said Alan bitterly; ‘you’re the friend of a cheat, you know.’
“But Sir Anthony interposed with stiff old-fashioned courtesy.
“‘I beg your pardon, Dr. Stewart, if there was anything in my manner calculated to give you offence. I will most willingly hear any explanation you can give me of what certainly seems a black business.’
“I plunged into the story straight away. When I told him—I tried to do it dramatically—where and how the diamond was hidden and found. I certainly made an impression. His face softened, and he glanced admiringly at his nephew, who doggedly refused to meet his eye. But he hardened again as I went on to speak of the sale.
“‘This Mr. Solomons of yours,’ he asked sharply, when I had ended, ‘has the reputation of an honest dealer?’
“‘Not merely honest, but off-hand and liberal, Sir Anthony.’
“‘You were with my nephew when he first brought him the diamond?’
“‘No, but I was with him when he sold it, and saw the stone weighed and the weight entered in a docket.’
“‘Ah!’
“He evidently found something—I could not tell what—in my answers for his suspicion to feed upon.
“‘Can I see this Mr. Solomons?’ he asked, after a short pause.
“‘Certainly, I’ll be most happy to take you there. But frankly, I’d like to know first what the trouble is about.’
“‘Haven’t I told you already,’ Alan interposed bitterly. ‘I’ve cheated him in the sale of his infernal diamond.’
“Sir Anthony grew cool as the other grew hot. He took not the least notice of his nephew by word or look, but drew me quietly from the room.
“‘Good-bye, uncle,’ cried Alan mockingly. Some devil had got hold of him. ‘You will beg my pardon yet for all this.”
“With a strong effort the other still restrained himself. ‘I will beg your pardon, sir, if I am wrong; if I am right, I will disown you.’
“We were in the street walking in the direction of Mr. Solomons when he spoke again.
“‘When can you make it convenient to take me to this man—this Mr. What’s-his-name—that bought the diamond?’ he asked.
“‘We are going there now.’
“‘But your appointments?’
“‘My appointments must wait. This matter is urgent, and your nephew is my friend, Sir Anthony.’
“There was another pause, and we walked on briskly.
“‘Dr. Stewart!’ he said at last very earnestly, ‘you must not think me a mere Indian pepper-box, a man without a liver or a heart. I have behaved badly in this business, I know. I have been brooding over it on the boat all the way home, and my temper got the better of me just now. But I feel it is too serious a thing to get riled about.’ Another pause. ‘The truth is I have always loved my nephew as a son, and have been proud of him. I would willingly have thrown the diamond and the price of it to the devil if he could clean out of this bad business.’
“‘He will,’ I answered confidently.
“Mr. Solomons received us very civilly. He willingly showed us the diamond, though he refused to let it out of his own hand. ‘You will forgive me,’ he said courteously, ‘for what may seem to savour of suspicion. But I make this an invariable rule, and where there are no exceptions there should be no offence.’
“However, he weighed the stone in our presence. It was a shade under forty-nine carats, and he allowed us to test the weights and scales for ourselves.
“Sir Anthony hardly spoke at all, going through the business quietly and stolidly. When we got out into the street he confessed that the diamond which he had seen was precisely similar in shape to the one given him by the Rajah.
“‘It seemed to me smaller,’ I said incautiously and without reflection.
“The next instant I was sorry I said it.
“‘That’s my notion, too,’ he answered hastily and hotly; ‘there must have been a substitution before the weighing and the sale, and it’s not easy to see how that could be managed without my nephew’s connivance.’
“We had another trial of the weight last week. This time Alan was present and several experts. The diamond was weighed again in our presence, and the weights and scales tested before and after, with exactly the same result. Alan was positive it was the same diamond he had got from his uncle and sold to the merchant. This time I was inclined to agree with him. I suppose I naturally thought it larger when I took it first from its strange hiding place. But unfortunately I had already committed myself on this point to his uncle, and there was no use telling him my second thoughts about the size.
“I’m tiring you, Miss Myrl, I’m a bad story-teller. But luckily there is little more to tell.
“Sir Anthony sticks to his point. His diamond, he says, unquestionably weighed sixty-five carats; this only weighs forty-nine. It cannot be the same; there must be trickery somewhere. The fierce old boy completely broke down at Alan’s place last night, and with tears in his eyes urged his nephew to confess, promising him forgiveness. But Alan ordered him out of his room.
“That’s how things look at present; they could not well look uglier. The two men are all the more angry because they are so fond of each other, and because each in his own way is as proud as Lucifer!”
Dora Myrl did not seem to hear him. She sat for full five minutes after he stopped speaking, with puckered forehead and lips tight-closed.
“What do you think?” she said at last abruptly.
“I’d pledge my life on Alan’s honour!”
“That does not carry us very far.”
“I can go no further. Can you?”
“Well, yes,” she answered, smiling, with a lighting up of her whole face, “I think I can; I’m almost sure I can. But I must put my notion to the test. Can you arrange a final interview with Mr. Solomons?”
“I think so, but he is naturally a bit crusty about the business.”
The interview was arranged for the next day but one. The doctor reported to Dora he had no trouble with Mr. Solomons. Sir Anthony was eager to come, but Alan was as obstinate and sulky as a pig. “I’d much sooner,” he said, “that he’d put me in the dock straight away and have done with it.” At last, however, he also consented.
They found Mr. Solomons in a spacious office on the ground floor at the back of his premises in Hatton Garden. A very broad, massive mahogany counter, highly polished, divided the room longitudinally into two sections. In the outer section, which was thickly carpeted, there were tables and chairs. Behind the mahogany counter, facing his visitors, sat Mr. Solomons on a high stool, with a scales and  powerful magnifying glass in front of him. There was a large safe at his right hand, and a small American roll-top writing desk and a bookcase near the wall.
Mr. Solomons was a handsome and venerable looking man, about seventy years of age, with a flowing white beard and bushy white eyebrows, from whose shade his large dark eyes looked mildly out upon a wicked world.
His manner was a little cold to the party, but still courteous. He pushed the scales and weights across the counter without a word, to be examined and tested.
The scales were a most delicate piece of mechanism. The dishes were polished steel attached to the arms by fine gold wire, and the beam played on a diamond pivot. So perfect was the poise that a hair dropped in one scale brought it down with a tap on the table. The scales and weights were carefully tested with others brought for the purpose, and were then handed back to Mr. Solomons. He unlocked the safe, took out the diamond, and put it in one dish of the scales. Slowly, one after the other, he put the weights into the other. At forty-nine carats the dish with the diamond slowly rose, and the weighted dish came down with a tap on the counter.
As she stood there with her pretty crook-handled parasol resting on the mahogany counter right in front of the scales Dora Myrl looked a gay Society butterfly—nothing more. She was daintily dressed in a green water silk dress with an elaborate trimming of shiny beads of steel and jet, and a wonderful toque, with a bright red feather in it, perched amid her glossy wavy hair.
Dr. Stewart noticed that she seemed to take no interest at all in the testing of the scales and weights, and very little in the weighing. Even now she stood close to the counter, plucking carelessly at the tassels of the bead trimming of her dress. A bunch of the beads came away loose in her fingers, and, leaning forward, she set them on the glossy counter close to the scales just as the weighed dish came slowly down. The jet beads rested where they were laid. But the tiny steel beads rolled rapidly away across the counter, and disappeared under the rounded edge of the weighted scale.
So quietly was the thing done, and apparently so carelessly, that no one noticed but Mr. Solomons. As the steel beads vanished under the scales, Dora raised her bright keen eyes and looked meaningly in his. His face changed instantly to a ghastly pallor, and his trembling hands fell limply from the scales.
With a quick jerk of the crooked handle of her parasol she brought it, weights, diamond, and all together, across the counter.
Mr. Solomons neither spoke nor moved.
“Now weigh the diamond again!” said Dora sharply.
They weighed it at the table with the same weights and scales— it was sixty-five carats full!
For a moment they looked from one to the other, dumb with surprise. Dr. Stewart spoke first.
“I cannot understand,” he began.
Dora pointed to the little speck of white steel beads now clustered close together on the dark glossy surface of the mahogany.
“A powerful magnet,” she said, “has been let into the wood from below; the mahogany is only skin deep over it.”
Sir Anthony did not give a second look or thought to the diamond. He turned to his nephew.
“Alan,” he said simply, “I beg your pardon.”
“Don’t mention it, sir,” said Alan, and the two men gripped hands.