IS it true?” Dora asked, as they swung round to the languishing swell of the music as lightly as though they floated upon air.
In plain prose, they both waltzed well and their steps suited.
“Is what true?” Fairleigh asked.
“Oh! you know, you know; don’t palter with me, sir. I’m dying of curiosity. There now! the music has stopped. It’s a judgment on you for your duplicity. No! I won’t dance any more; I want to talk. Hide me away somewhere from protesting partners, for my card is full.”
“I’ll be delighted at the chance; will the conservatory do?”
Many eyes followed them as they walked slowly across the ballroom, for both were celebrities in their way. Ernest Fairleigh had been the Senior Wrangler in Cambridge the year that Dora had taken her degree. He was the chief boast of the university at the time. Dora had naturally worshipped with the rest.
Fairleigh—like the Admirable Crichton—was what is called “a good all-round man,” pre-eminent on the cricket ground and the river, as in the Examination Hall. Nature with unwonted generosity had given him at the time a clear brain, an honest heart, an active liver, and a well-constructed body to hold all three. His work and his play were the very best of their kind. At the university, like Bacon, he had at first made all knowledge his province. But of late, and especially since he had left the university, he had concentrated himself on applied mathematics and mechanics, and on these subjects his supremacy was universally confessed. Strange stories were buzzed about London as to the inventions he had made or was about to make.
It was hard to look at the man and to these stories. For Fairleigh was not a bit like the conventional type of the distinguished sage scientist—no spectacles, no snuff, no nothing.
“Fine young fellow!” would be the every-day man’s comment on the square-shouldered, straight-backed, deep-chested figure. “Nice looking, too!” the lady commentator would add, for he had a silky moustache and beard, and eyes of turquoise blue, and crisp fair curls that framed a forehead, too wide, perhaps, for beauty, not for brains.
Only three little lines parallel down the centre of that forehead—wide and square—told how hard the brain had been worked.
It chanced that he had not met Dora since their college days together, but he recognised her at once, and insisted on monopolising all the spare dances on her programme till she gave up dancing for talk.
“It’s just as easy to be good-natured as nasty,” she said, as she made for him on a snug little couch in a quiet corner of the great palm-house. “Besides, I know you are longing to unbosom, and I’m as secret as the grave. Do talk!”
“My dear Miss Myrl, out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh, and my heart is——”
“Bar lovemaking, please, at least for the present, and talk shop!”
“Impossible in such a place and in such company. Do you think Father Abraham talked shop—agricultural and pastoral shop would be in his line—when the angel visited him?”
“Meaning I’m an angel. All right, then; talk of my wings.”
“So you have heard?”
“All London has heard something. I want definite information. In plain English, have you discovered the secret of flying?”
“No!”
She looked disappointed.
“My Miss Myrl,” he went on, smiling at her disappointment, “the secret of flying has been known since the dawn of creation. Taking the insects in with the birds, half the living things on or over the earth know and practise the art.”
“But have you made it possible for men and women to fly? You know right well what I mean!”
“Honestly, then, I believe I have; I may say I’m quite sure I have. It has been my dream since I was a boy”—all trace of levity was gone from his voice and manner. “I thought it a disgrace to our boasted lordship of creation that the stupidest bird and the meanest insect that flies could do well what we could not do at all. With millions of models daily before our eyes and six thousand years, more or less, to solve the problem, we had ignominiously failed. It was this ambition that made me take to mathematics and mechanics at the university. After I left the University I went in hard for anatomy. Then I looked up all that had been heretofore done in any direction in the art of flying, and then, just a year ago, I began on my own work at last. Am I boring you, Miss Myrl? Set a man on his hobby, you know, and he’ll ride to the—— I beg your pardon!”
“Go on! go on! I never in my life was so interested.”
“An inventor,” he went on, “will generally tell you that he found the other fellows had been all wrong. I found they had been all right; I got valuable hints from all of them. The balloonist, the wingist, and the aeroplainist—if I may coin two awkward words—were each about a third right. But the bird was after all my headmaster.
“It has been accepted as an aeronaut’s axiom that a man’s muscles are not strong enough to flap wings big enough to raise him in the air. That’s true and it is not true. Some comparatively heavy birds—the grouse and the pheasant and the pigeon, for example—fly very fast with very short wings. So I set myself to consider the comparative strength of the man’s muscles and the bird’s, and I made this interesting discovery. As an almost invariable rule in proportion to their respective bulk, the man’s muscles are stronger than the bird’s. In proportion to their respective weight the bird’s muscles are stronger than the man’s.
“The first thing, therefore, was to diminish the man’s weight—to speak accurately, to reduce his specific gravity to the bird’s, or below it—I really am ashamed of myself, Miss Myrl,” he broke off again. “But you have to blame yourself for the nuisance. This is not the kind of talk for a drawing-room and with such bewitching music entreating us to dance. Do come?”
“If it were the music of the spheres I would not budge a step; please go on.”
“Where was I?”
“Getting your man into training for a trip through the air.”
“Not exactly that. You see when a man goes into training his weight is reduced, but his specific gravity is increased. A thin man weighs less than a fat man, yet a thin man sinks in water and a fat man floats. I wanted to put on something lighter than blubber to help my man to float in the air. Here the balloonist stepped in to help me. It was no hard task to make a framework, light and strong, covered with oil silk and filled with hydrogen, which fitted to man like a great padded overcoat increased his bulk and diminished his weigh at the same time. Then I took my next tip from the aeroplainist. My framework was curved at the back but flat in the front, and designed so as to rise against the wind and support itself steadily in the mid-air.”
“But the motive power was still needed?” Dora interposed.
“Quite right, Miss Myrl,” he said, delighted at her eager appreciation, “and that was the hardest nut of all to crack. You see it was not a machine I wanted to make fly, but a man. Have you noticed the way it is universally assumed that a flying machine should be a war machine as a matter of course? It is a universal rule that the great science of slaughter—which they call war—almost monopolises invention. The first idea in men’s minds at the news of any great discovery is, will it help to kill more men? By that its value is tested. Nor is it merely the dull men or the sordid men that take this view. You remember how Tennyson associated flying and killing in his vision of the future:               
Heard the heavens fill with shouting and there rained a ghastly dew
From the nations’ airy navies grappling in the central blue. 
Now please remember I wanted, if I could, to contribute to the delight, not to the misery, of mankind. I was resolved to give my man wings, and teach him how to use them for his own pleasure, not his neighbours’ misery. My notion was to make him his own flying machine and his own muscles the sole motive power of his flight.”
“Are his muscles strong enough?”
“Well objected, Miss Myrl, my story provokes the question. I was just coming to that. A man is not as strong as a steam or gas engine of course, but he is an infinitely more perfect machine. Every ounce of strength he has is at his disposal in any and every direction. It can be applied to the best possible advantage. Besides, in any flying machine the man must be taken up. My idea was to send him up as a worker, not a drone. There was no sound reason why he could not work as hard as a bird.”
“And you succeeded?”
“After many trials and many failures I succeeded. My wings are worked by a simple mechanical contrivance which I think I may call ingenious. The hands and feet can be used alternately or together. My combination man-bird can, I believe, fly with the wind or against it—against for a preference, if it is not too strong—at the rate of sixty miles an hour. In his air-proof hydrogen overcoat he will be so light that an accident is impossible.”
“Surely what you hope for is impossible too, Mr Fairleigh. I know enough of mechanics to know that when you increase the power you diminish the speed; the stronger the lever the slower the motion, and vice versa.”
“That’s exactly what the wise people said about cycling, Miss Myrl. You cannot put more strength, they said, than a man has into a machine. If it carries him faster than he can walk or run it must be at the cost of a greater exertion. In a word, he cannot go far if he goes fast. We know how their wisdom worked out in practice. A man is able to do twenty miles an hour on a bicycle for a week at a stretch in spite of the tremendous drag of the track’s friction against the wheel pressed down with the combined weight of rider and machine. My man-bird, with no friction to stop him, should do sixty at the least.
“But, to be quite candid with you, Miss Myrl, it is no longer theory with me. Now I’m going to startle you! Three nights ago I, Ernest Fairleigh, flew five miles without fatigue or difficulty; time, a little over a quarter of an hour.”
She was bewildered, almost frightened, at those last few quiet words. Up to that the conversation had interested her rather as an impersonal lecture on popular science by a man admitted to be a master of his craft. But she could not realise in the least that the greatest problem of the centuries had been solved at last. It was surely enough to make her gasp for breath to be told, in quiet matter of fact tones which made doubt impossible, that this good-looking young fellow in conventional evening dress had done what all men had dreamed of and no man in the world’s history had accomplished before.
She sat for a moment in silence, striving to grasp the full wonder of it, while the waves of music from the drawing-room came and went. The man beside her suddenly assumed an almost God-like dignity in her eyes. When she spoke at last, it was not in the least what she meant to say, neither words nor voice seemed her own.
“Have you patented the invention, Mr. Fairleigh?”
The question seemed to her awakened fancy a pitiful anti-climax. But plainly Ernest Fairleigh did not think so.
“Not yet,” he said slowly. “Honestly, Miss Myrl, I have had some worry about this part of the business and meant to consult you, even if you had not forced the running. I have heard of your triumphs. I am anxious to have the thing absolutely complete before I send the plans to the Patent Office, and it is not absolutely complete even yet, though I hope a few days more will complete it. You see I don’t want to give the hint before I am quite ready, and to have other fellows crowding in with patent improvements.
“Now comes a strange part of the business! I kept my secret—or thought I kept it. I never even spoke of the secret subject except to yourself to-night, and to one other very intimate friend. Yet, as you know, the rumour of my work has got abroad about the city. Even that is not the worst of it by any means. During the last fortnight there have been three separate attempts to burgle my papers. The last was most ingenious and almost successful. My confidential clerk—who has helped me with the clerical work and calculations from the first—has had enormous bribes offered him to copy or steal the papers; bribes that in two instances have run to four figures. He couldn’t have done it if he wanted, and wouldn’t if he could. The old fellow—who is as honest as the sun—came straight with the letters to me.”
“Forewarned is forearmed,” said Dora; “you have taken precautions of course?”
“Every precaution that I could think of. I have had my offices changed to a top story in the very heart of the city. I work in the front room, and Bradley in the back. There are iron bars on the door and on the windows which look down into the thronged street, and a couple of policemen have special instructions to keep a sharp eye on the place. The papers are kept in a special safe of my own devising—absolutely burglar proof, I believe—and I alone keep the key. Except the complete specification and tracing on which I am now working, a single sheet of thin paper, no document of any importance ever leaves the safe, and the specification goes back every night from my own hand. Every morning I open the door of the office with a patent Chubb key, and lock it every evening. No one leaves the place meantime. Both Bradley and myself take our luncheons with us to the office. We are both armed and ready to use our weapons. There does not seem much chance for a thief—does there?”
Dora had lapsed into a brown study and looked at him silently without seeing him. Manlike, Fairleigh mistook intentness for inattention.
“You are not listening, Miss Myrl?” he said in a hurt tone.
“Both with my ears and mind,” she answered, “listening and thinking my very best. I am not easily excited. But you have set all my nerves tingling. The thing itself is of such transcendent importance.”
“Is there any other precaution you could suggest?” he asked anxiously.
“None, unless——”
She hesitated for a word.
“Unless what?” he urged.
“You could not, I suppose, finish the work alone?”
“Not easily. Oh! I see what you are thinking of—Bradley. You may put that out of your mind, Miss Myrl, you really may,” he went on earnestly. “If you knew Bradley as I do the thought could never have occurred to you. I don’t urge the fact that he has refused the immense bribes that have been offered to him. The man himself is incapable of treachery, especially to me. He has been in my father’s service or mine over thirty years. A gentle, placid, innocent old bachelor. He lives in a little detached cottage fifteen miles out of London that I have taken for him. In his spare hours he is absorbed in his garden and poultry yard especially his poultry yard. His cocks and hens and pigeons take prizes at the poultry shows. I know something about human nature, I flatter myself, and you may safely leave Bradley out of the calculation of danger.”
“Then I have nothing to suggest; you seem to be absolutely secure.”
“It is a relief, believe me, to hear you say so. Listen! they are playing the last waltz, Miss Myrl. Can you resist its persuasion?”
She could not resist.
Two days later, as Dora sat at her desk late in the afternoon, her servant hurriedly put a note into her hand.
She tore the envelope open and read: “Come at once if you can. Please come. Ernest Fairleigh.”
Not a word more.
“Note came in a hansom, Miss,” the servant explained in reply to her look of enquiry, “hansom is waiting.”
The hansom had not long to wait. The instant she stepped in, the driver was off without waiting for a direction at a twelve miles an hour trot citywards.
There were three people in the office which Dora reached up interminable stairs, and all three looked about equally disconcerted and bewildered. Two she knew, Fairleigh and Adam Warner, an inspector from Scotland Yard. The third—a gentle-faced, middle-aged man, round shouldered and grey haired, with the large dark wistful eyes of a spaniel she divined at once to be the confidential clerk Joe Bradley.
“Gone!” was Fairleigh’s brief greeting as she stepped briskly into the office. She was not in the least put out by his abruptness.
“Tell me the facts,” she answered, “as shortly as you can.”
The inspector began: “Mr. Fairleigh came in this morning at the usual hour——”
Dora interrupted: “You won’t mind, I’m sure, Inspector, you and I are too good friends to fall out about trifles; but I want the evidence at first hand.”
Fairleigh nodded. “About three o’clock I was working at the paper I told you about Miss Myrl. I had almost finished a complete tracing of the design when a sharp knock came to the door. ‘Come in!’ I cried, but there was no answer. I went myself to open the door. There was a man I knew on the landing—a man named Jerome, an inventor. He wanted my opinion on a point in a design he was working at. He was in a great hurry, he said, and wouldn’t come in, and I didn’t press him much, for my precious papers were all about. I showed him what he wanted, drawing the design with a stump of pencil on the back of an envelope, and he thanked me and left.
“I was about five minutes altogether on the landing, standing with my back to my own door, not more than a foot or two from it. But when I went back I saw at a glance that the specification at which I had been working was gone. My first thought was for Bradley; that he had been hurt, perhaps killed. The door between our two offices was closed. I turned the handle and found him busy at his desk. He had heard nothing and had seen nothing of course. We made a diligent search, but it was no use. Then Bradley suggested a detective, and I telephoned to Scotland Yard, and Inspector Warner was kind enough to come over at once. He too has made a most thorough and searching examination; all to no purpose. I must confess, Miss Myrl, that my old friend Bradley”—he laid his hand kindly on the old clerk’s shoulder as he spoke—“embarrassed me not a little. He insisted on being stripped and searched. I told him not to make an ass of himself. But the inspector joined with him ‘for the man’s own sake,’ so of course I had to give in. The inspector certainly searched him as if he expected to find something. But it was nonsense of course, as I knew.
“Then all of a sudden your name came to my mind. The inspector jumped at the idea”—Dora smiled very prettily on the inspector—“and I took the liberty of sending the note and a hansom for you, and—that’s all!”
He stopped short, a little out of breath with his rapid narrative. Then he added: “If you will pardon me, I think you may begin with the assumption that the paper is gone out of the place. If it were here it could not have escaped our search. The inspector will agree with me in that?” The inspector nodded.
“I don’t in the least doubt that,” Dora answered, with restless eyes all about the room. “This paper won’t be found here—that would be too simple.”
“That means it is irrevocably lost, I’m afraid?” Fairleigh said, dismally.
“Don’t be too sure of that. I’ve got a notion; it is only a fancy yet; still——”
She had picked up the empty silver sandwich case which had carried his luncheon and fiddled carelessly with it. Then, without another word, she put it down, walked abruptly to the door of the inner office, turned the handle, and went in: the three bewildered men following her. She pounced at once on a neat covered basket that lay open on the floor beside the desk.
“Bradley’s luncheon basket,” Fairleigh explained, as she picked it up. She examined it carefully, with brightening eyes and colour.
“You have searched this basket, of course?” she said to the inspector.
“Of course.”
“And found?”
“Nothing.”
“Just so; nothing. It’s a large basket for a luncheon, isn’t it? You have a good appetite, Mr. Bradley?” speaking for the first time to the old clerk, with her keen eyes upon his face.
“Pretty good, miss, thank you!” the man answered meekly, “but I don’t eat the full of that, not nearly.”
“No, I suppose not. You are a vegetarian I find; you eat—oats?”
She fished up a grain of oats out of a crevice of the wicker-work and held it out before him.
Plainly a small thing could confuse the modest old man. He certainly coloured and gasped at the sight of the poor little grain of oats in the small palm of her hand.
Perhaps she wished to relieve his embarrassment.
“Oh! I beg your pardon, Mr. Bradley,” she said sweetly, “I see now I was mistaken. You had cold chicken for lunch, of course.”
She drew a small bluish feather from the basket as she spoke. “A chicken of your own rearing, I presume. But you really ought to get them to pick the fowl more carefully, Mr. Bradley!”
It was strange and almost pitiable to note how pale the old man grew under the girl’s keen eyes. He mumbled something with trembling lips—no word was audible.
Dora affected to examine the little feather still more carefully with a quizzical smile.
“Again I beg your pardon, Mr. Bradley,” she said, “I find it was a pigeon pie you had for luncheon. This is a pigeon’s feather I have found in the basket.”
Without a word the man dropped into a chair, and lay there huddled up with his face buried in his hands.
“What is the meaning of all this, Miss Myrl?” Ernest Fairleigh broke out at last, in utter bewilderment.
“Only this, Mr. Fairleigh; I’ve discovered the thief and the paper. If you will kindly take the train at once to the rural retreat of the innocent Mr. Bradley, you will find the paper you want hid under the wing of a little carrier pigeon in his dovecot.”
So he did.