RAYMOND RENNICK might have been going to his wedding instead of to his—death.
Spick and span in a new spring suit, he paused just outside the broad, arched gates of the Duffield estate and drew his silver cigarette case from his pocket. A self-satisfied smile flashed across his face as he struck a match and inhaled the fragrant odor of the tobacco. It was good tobacco, very good tobacco—and Senator Duffield’s private secretary was something of a judge!
For a moment Rennick lingered. It was a day to banish uncomfortable thoughts, to smooth the rough edges of a man’s problems—and burdens. As the secretary glanced up at the soft blue sky, the reflection swept his mind that his own future was as free from clouds. It was a pleasing reflection. Perhaps the cigarette, perhaps the day helped to deepen it as he swung almost jauntily up the winding driveway toward the square, white house commanding the terraced lawn beyond.
Just ahead of him a maple tree, standing alone, rustled gaily in its spring foliage like a woman calling attention to her new finery. It was all so fresh and beautiful and innocent! Rennick felt a tingling thrill in his blood. Unconsciously he tossed away his cigarette. He reached the rustling maple and passed it...
From behind the gnarled trunk, a shadow darted. A figure sprang at his shoulders, with the long blade of a dagger awkwardly poised. There was a flash of steel in the sunlight...
It was perhaps ten minutes later that they found him. He had fallen face downward at the edge of the driveway, with his body half across the velvet green of the grass. A thin thread of red, creeping from the wound in his breast, was losing itself in the sod.
One hand was doubled, as in a desperate effort at defense. His glasses were twisted under his shoulders. Death must have been nearly instantaneous. The dagger had reached his heart at the first thrust. One might have fancied an expression of overpowering amazement in the staring eyes. That was all. The weapon had caught him squarely on the left side. He had evidently whirled toward the assassin almost at the instant of the blow.
Whether in the second left him of life he had recognized his assailant, and the recognition had made his death-blow the quicker and the surer, were questions that only deepened the horror of the noon-day crime.
As though to emphasize the hour, the mahogany clock in Senator Duffield’s library rang out its twelve monotonous chimes as John Dorrence, his valet, beat sharply on the door. The echo of the nervous tattoo was lost in an unanswering silence. Dorrence repeated his knock before he brought an impatient response from beyond the panels.
“Can you come, sir?” the valet burst out. “Something awful has happened, sir. It’s, it’s——”
The door was flung open. A ruddy-faced man with thick, white hair and grizzled moustache, and the hints of a nervous temperament showing in his eyes and voice, sprang into the hall. Somebody once remarked that Senator Duffield was Mark Twain’s double. The Senator took the comparison as a compliment, perhaps because it was a woman who made it.
Dorrence seized his master by the sleeve, which loss of dignity did more to impress the Senator with the gravity of the situation than all of the servant’s excitable words.
“Mr. Rennick, sir, has been stabbed, sir, on the lawn, and Miss Beth, sir——”
Senator Duffield staggered against the wall. The valet’s alarm swerved to another channel.
“Shall I get the brandy, sir?”
“Brandy?” the Senator repeated vaguely. The next instant, as though grasping the situation anew, he sprang down the hall with the skirts of his frock coat flapping against his knees. At the door of the veranda, he whirled.
“Get the doctor on the ’phone, Dorrence—Redfield, if Scott is out. Let him know it’s a matter of minutes! And, Dorrence——”
“Yes, sir!”
“Tell the telephone girl that, if this leaks to the newspapers, I will have the whole office discharged!”
A shifting group on the edge of the lawn, with that strange sense of awkwardness which sudden death brings, showed the scene of the tragedy.
The circle fell back as the Senator’s figure appeared. On the grass, Rennick’s body still lay where it had fallen—suggesting a skater who has ignominiously collapsed on the ice rather than a man stabbed to the heart. The group had been wondering at the fact in whispered monosyllables.
A kneeling girl was bending over the secretary’s body. It was not until Senator Duffield had spoken her name twice that she glanced up. In her eyes was a grief so wild that for a moment he was held dumb.
“Come, Beth,” he said, gently, “this is no place for you.”
At once the white-faced girl became the central figure of the situation. If she heard him, she gave no sign. The Senator caught her shoulder and pushed her slowly away. One of the woman-servants took her arm. Curiously enough, the two were the only members of the family that had been called to the scene.
The Senator swung on the group, with a return of his aggressiveness.
“Some one, who can talk fast and to the point, tell me the story. Burke, you have a ready tongue. How did it happen?”
The groom—a much-tanned young fellow in his early twenties—touched his cap.
“I don’t know, sir. No one knows. Mr. Rennick was lying here, stabbed, when we found him. He was already dead.”
“But surely there was some cry, some sound of a suicide?”
The groom shook his head. “If there was, sir, none of us heard it. We all liked Mr. Rennick, sir. I would have gone through fire and water if he needed my help. If there had been an outcry loud enough to reach the stable, I would have been there on the jump!”
“Do you mean to tell me that Rennick could have been struck down in the midst of fifteen or twenty people with no one the wiser? It’s ridiculous, impossible!”
Burke squared his shoulders, with an almost unconscious suggestion of dignity.
“I am telling you the truth, sir!”
The Senator’s glance dropped to his secretary’s body and he looked up with a shudder. Then, as though with an effort, his eyes returned to the huddled form, and he stood staring down at the dead man, with a frown knitting his brow. Once he jerked his head toward the gardener with the curt question, “Who found him?”
Jenkins shambled forward uneasily. “I did, sir. I hope you don’t think I disturbed the body?”
The Senator shrugged his shoulders impatiently. He did not raise his head again until the sound of a motor in the driveway broke the tension. The surgeon had arrived. Almost at the same moment there was a cry from Jenkins.
The gardener stood perhaps a half a dozen yards from the body, staring at an object hidden in the grass at his feet. He stooped and raised it. It was a woman’s slipper!
As a turn of his head showed him the eyes of the group turned in his direction, he walked across to Senator Duffield, holding his find at arm’s length, as though its dainty outlines might conceal an adder’s nest.
The slipper was of black suede, high-heeled and slender, tied with a broad, black ribbon. One end of the ribbon was broken and stained as though it had tripped its owner. On the thin sole were cakes of the peculiar red clay of the driveway.
It might have been unconscious magnetism that caused the Senator suddenly to turn his eyes in the direction of his daughter. She was swaying on the arm of the servant.
Throwing off the support of the woman, she took two quick steps forward, with her hand flung out as though to tear the slipper from him. And then, without a word, she fell prone on the grass.
II
The telephone in my room must have been jangling a full moment before I struggled out of my sleep and raised myself to my elbow. It was with a feeling of distinct rebellion that I slipped into my kimono and slippers and shuffled across to the sputtering instrument in the corner. From eight in the morning until eight in the evening, I had been on racking duty in the Farragut poison trial, and the belated report of the wrangling jury, at an hour which made any sort of a meal impossible until after ten, had left me worn out physically and mentally. I glanced at my watch as I snapped the receiver to my ear. It lacked barely fifteen minutes of midnight. An unearthly hour to call a woman out of bed, even if she is past the age of sentimental dreams!
“Well?” I growled.
A laugh answered me at the other end of the wire. I would have flung the receiver back to the hook and myself back to bed had I not recognized the tones. There is only one person in the world, excepting the tyrant at our city editor’s desk, who would arouse me at midnight. But I had thought this person separated from me by twelve hundred miles of ocean.
“Madelyn Mack!” I gasped.
The laughter ceased. “Madelyn Mack it is!” came back the answer, now reduced to a tone of decorous gravity. “Pardon my merriment, Nora. The mental picture of your huddled form——”
“But I thought you were in Jamaica!” I broke in, now thoroughly awake.
“I was—until Saturday. Our steamer came out of quarantine at four o’clock this afternoon. As it develops, I reached here at the psychological moment.”
I kicked a rocker to my side and dropped into it with a rueful glance at the rumpled sheets of the bed. With Madelyn Mack at the telephone at midnight, only one conclusion was possible; and such a conclusion shattered all thought of sleep.
“Have you read the evening dispatches from Boston, Nora?”
“I have read nothing—except the report of the Farragut jury!” I returned crisply. “Why?”
“If you had, you would perhaps divine the reason of my call. I have been retained in the Rennick murder case. I am taking the one-thirty sleeper for Boston. I secured our berths just before I telephoned.”
“Our berths!”
“I am taking you with me. Now that you are up, you may as well dress and ring for a taxicab. I will meet you at the Roanoke hotel.”
“But,” I protested, “don’t you think——”
“Very well, if you don’t care to go! That settles it!”
“Oh, I will be there!” I said with an air of resignation. “Ten minutes to dress, and fifteen minutes for the taxi!”
“I will add five minutes for incidentals,” Madelyn replied and hung up the receiver.
The elevator boy at “The Occident,” where I had my modest apartment, had become accustomed to the strange hours and strange visitors of a newspaper woman during my three years’ residence. He opened the door with a grin of sympathy as the car reached my floor. As though to give more active expression to his feelings he caught up my bag and gave it a place of honor on his own stool.
“Going far?” he queried as I alighted at the main corridor.
“I may be back in twenty-four hours and I may not be back for twenty-four days,” I answered cautiously—I knew Madelyn Mack!
As I waited for the whir of the taxicab, I appropriated the evening paper on the night clerk’s desk. The Rennick murder case had been given a three-column head on the front page. If I had not been so absorbed in the Farragut trial, it could not have escaped me. I had not finished the head-lines, however, when the taxi, with a promptness almost uncanny, rumbled up to the curb.
I threw myself back against the cushions, switched on the electric light, and spread my paper over my knee, as the chauffeur turned off toward Fifth Avenue. The story was well written and had made much of a few facts. Trust my newspaper instinct to know that! I had expected a fantastic puzzle—when it could spur Madelyn into action within six hours after her landing—but I was hardly anticipating a problem such as I could read between rather than in the lines of type before me. Long before the “Roanoke” loomed into view, I had forgotten my lost sleep.
The identity of Raymond Rennick’s assassin was as baffling as in the first moments of the discovery of the tragedy. There had been no arrests—nor hint of any. From the moment when the secretary had turned into the gate of the Duffield yard until the finding of his body, all trace of his movements had been lost as effectually as though the darkness of midnight had enveloped him, instead of the sunlight of noon. More than ten minutes could not have elapsed between his entrance into the grounds and the discovery of his murder—perhaps not more than five—but they had been sufficient for the assassin to effect a complete escape.
There was not even the shadow of a motive. Raymond Rennick was one of those few men who seemed to be without an enemy. In an official capacity, his conduct was without a blemish. In a social capacity, he was admittedly one of the most popular men in Brookline—among both sexes. Rumor had it, apparently on unquestioned authority, that the announcement of his engagement to Beth Duffield was to have been an event of the early summer. This fact was in my mind as I stared out into the darkness.
On a sudden impulse, I opened the paper again. From an inside page the latest photograph of the Senator’s daughter, taken at a fashionable Boston studio, smiled up at me. It was an excellent likeness as I remembered her at the inaugural ball the year before—a wisp of a girl, with a mass of black hair, which served to emphasize her frailness. I studied the picture with a frown. There was a sense of familiarity in its outlines, which certainly our casual meeting could not explain. Then, abruptly, my thoughts flashed back to the crowded courtroom of the afternoon—and I remembered.
In the prisoner’s dock I saw again the figure of Beatrice Farragut, slender, fragile, her white face, her somber gown, her eyes fixed like those of a frightened lamb on the jury which was to give her life—or death.
“She poison her husband?” had buzzed the whispered comments at my shoulders during the weary weeks of the trial. “She couldn’t harm a butterfly!” Like a mocking echo, the tones of the foreman had sounded the answering verdict of murder—in the first degree. And in New York this meant—
Why had Beatrice Farragut suggested Beth Duffield? Or was it Beth Duffield who had suggested—I crumpled the paper into a heap and tossed it from the window in disgust at my morbid imagination. B-u-r-r-h! And yet they say that a New York newspaper woman has no nerves!
A voice hailed us from the darkness and a white-gowned figure sprang out on to the walk. As the chauffeur brought the machine to a halt, Madelyn Mack caught my hands.
Her next two actions were thoroughly characteristic.
Whirling to the driver, she demanded shortly, “How soon can you make the Grand Central Station?”
The man hesitated. “Can you give me twenty minutes?”
“Just! We will leave here at one sharp. You will wait, please!”
Having thus disposed of the chauffeur—Madelyn never gave a thought to the matter of expense!—she seized my arm and pushed me through the entrance of the “Roanoke” as nonchalantly as though we had parted six hours before instead of six weeks.
“I hope you enjoyed Jamaica?” I ventured.
“Did you read the evening papers on the way over?” she returned as easily as though I had not spoken.
“One,” I answered shortly. Madelyn’s habit of ignoring my queries grated most uncomfortably at times.
“Then you know what has been published concerning the case?”
I nodded. “I imagine that you can add considerable.”
“As a matter of fact, I know less than the reporters!” Madelyn threw open the door of her room. “You have interviewed Senator Duffield on several occasions, have you not, Nora?”
“You might say on several delicate occasions if you cared to!”
“You can tell me then whether the Senator is in the habit of polishing his glasses when he is in a nervous mood?”
A rather superior smile flashed over my face.
“I assure you that Senator Duffield never wears glasses on any occasion!”
Something like a chuckle came from Madelyn.
“Perhaps you can do as well on another question. You will observe in these newspapers four different photographs of the murdered secretary. Naturally, they bear many points of similarity—they were all taken in the last three years—but they contain one feature in common which puzzles me. Does it impress you in the same way?”
I glanced at the group of photographs doubtfully. Three of them were obviously newspaper “snapshots,” taken of the secretary while in the company of Senator Duffield. The fourth was a reproduction of a conventional cabinet photograph. They showed a clean shaven, well built young man of thirty or thereabouts; tall, and I should say inclined to athletics. I turned from the newspapers to Madelyn with a shrug.
“I am afraid I don’t quite follow you,” I admitted ruefully. “There is nothing at all out of the ordinary in any of them that I can catch.”
Madelyn carefully clipped the pictures and placed them under the front cover of her black morocco note-book. As she did so, a clock chimed the hour of one. We both pushed back our chairs.
As we stepped into the taxicab, Madelyn tapped my arm. “I wonder if Raymond Rennick polished his glasses when he was nervous?” she asked musingly.
III
Boston, from the viewpoint of the South Station at half-past seven in the morning, suggests to me a rheumatic individual climbing stiffly out of bed. Boston distinctly resents anything happening before noon. I’ll wager that nearly every important event that she has contributed to history occurred after lunch-time!
If Madelyn Mack had expected to have to find her way to the Duffield home without a guide, she was pleasantly disappointed. No less a person than the Senator, himself, was awaiting us at the train-gate—a somewhat dishevelled Senator, it must be confessed, with the stubble of a day-old beard showing eloquently how his peace of mind and the routine of his habits had been shattered. As he shook hands with us, he made an obvious attempt to recover something of his ease of manner.
“I trust that you had a pleasant night’s rest,” he ventured, as he led the way across the station to his automobile.
“Much pleasanter than you had, I fear,” replied Madelyn.
The Senator sighed. “As a matter of fact, I found sleep hopeless; I spent most of the night with my cigar. The suggestion of meeting your train came as a really welcome relief.”
As we stepped into the waiting motor, a leather-lunged newsboy thrust a bundle of heavy-typed papers into our faces. The Senator whirled with a curt dismissal on his tongue when Madelyn thrust a coin toward the lad and swept a handful of flapping papers into her lap.
“There is absolutely nothing new in the case, Miss Mack, I assure you,” the Senator said impatiently. “The reporters have pestered me like so many leeches. The sight of a head-line makes me shiver.”
Madelyn bent over her papers without comment. As I settled into the seat by her side, however, and the machine whirled around the corner, I saw that she was not even making a pretence of reading. I watched her with a frown as she turned the pages. There was no question of her interest, but it was not the type that held her attention. I doubted if she was perusing a line of the closely-set columns. It was not until she reached the last paper that I solved the mystery. It was the illustrations that she was studying!
When she finished the heap of papers, she began slowly and even more thoughtfully to go through them again. Now I saw that she was pondering the various photographs of Senator Duffield’s family that the newspapers had published. I turned away from her bent form and tapping finger, but there was a magnetism in her abstraction that forced my eyes back to her in spite of myself. As my gaze returned to her, she thrust her gloved hand into the recesses of her bag and drew out her black morocco notebook. From its pages she selected the four newspaper pictures of the murdered secretary that she had offered me the night before. With a twinkle of satisfaction, she grouped them about a large, black-bordered picture which stared up at her from the printed page in her lap.
Our ride to the Duffield gate was not a long one. In fact I was so absorbed by my furtive study of Madelyn Mack that I was startled when the chauffeur slackened his speed, and I realized from a straightening of the Senator’s bent shoulders that we were nearing our destination.
At the edge of the driveway, a quietly dressed man in a grey suit, who was strolling carelessly back and forth from the gate to the house, eyed us curiously as we passed, and touched his hat to the Senator. I knew at once he was a detective. (Trust a newspaper woman to “spot” a plain clothes man, even if he has left his police uniform at home!) Madelyn did not look up and the Senator made no comment.
As we stepped from the machine, a tall girl with severe, almost classical features and a profusion of nut-brown hair which fell away from her forehead without even the suggestion of a ripple, was awaiting us.
“My daughter, Maria,” Senator Duffield announced formally.
Madelyn stepped forward with extended hand. It was evident that Miss Duffield had intended only a brief nod. For an instant she hesitated, with a barely perceptible flush. Then her fingers dropped limply into Madelyn Mack’s palm. (I chuckled inwardly at the ill grace with which she did it!)
“This must be a most trying occasion for you,” Madelyn said with a note of sympathy in her voice, which made me stare. Effusiveness of any kind was so foreign to her nature that I frowned as we followed our host into the wide front drawing room. As we entered by one door, a black-gowned, white-haired woman, evidently Mrs. Duffield, entered by the opposite door.
In spite of the reserve of the society leader, whose sway might be said to extend to three cities, she darted an appealing glance at Madelyn Mack that melted much of the newspaper cynicism with which I was prepared to greet her. Madelyn crossed the room to her side and spoke a low sentence, that I did not catch, as she took her hand. I found myself again wondering at her unwonted friendliness. She was obviously exerting herself to gain the good will of the Duffield household. Why?
A trim maid, who stared at us as though we were museum freaks, conducted us to our rooms—adjoining apartments at the front of the third floor. The identity of Madelyn Mack had already been noised through the house and I caught a saucer-eyed glance from a second servant as we passed down the corridor. If the atmosphere of suppressed curiosity was embarrassing my companion, however, she gave no sign of the fact. Indeed, we had hardly time to remove our hats when the breakfast gong rang.
The family was assembling in the old-fashioned dining-room when we entered. In addition to the members of the domestic circle whom I have already indicated, my attention was at once caught by two figures who entered just before us. One was a young woman whom it did not need a second glance to tell me was Beth Duffield. Her white face and swollen eyes were evidence enough of her overwrought condition, and I caught myself speculating why she had left her room.
Her companion was a tall, slender young fellow with just the faintest trace of a stoop in his shoulders. As he turned toward us, I saw a handsome, though self-indulgent face, to a close observer suggesting evidences of more dissipation than was good for its owner. And, if the newspaper stories of the doings of Fletcher Duffield were true, the facial index was a true one. If I remembered rightly, Senator Duffield’s son more than once had made prim old Boston town rub her spectacled eyes at the tales of his escapades!
Fletcher Duffield bowed rather abstractedly as he was presented to us, but during the eggs and chops he brightened visibly, and put several curious questions to Madelyn as to her methods of work, which enlivened what otherwise would have been a rather dull half hour.
As the strokes of nine rang through the room, my companion pushed her chair back.
“What time is the coroner’s inquest, Senator?”
Mr. Duffield raised his eyebrows at the change in her attitude. “It is scheduled for eleven o’clock.”
“And when do you expect Inspector Taylor of headquarters?”
“In the course of an hour, I should say, perhaps less. His man, Martin, has been here since yesterday afternoon—you probably saw him as we drove into the yard. I can telephone Mr. Taylor, if you wish to see him sooner.”
“That will hardly be necessary, thank you.”
Madelyn walked across to the window. For a moment she stood peering out on to the lawn. Then she stooped, and her hand fumbled with the catch. The window swung open with the noiselessness of well-oiled hinges, and she stepped out on to the veranda, without so much as a glance at the group about the table.
I think the Senator and I rose from our chairs at the same instant. When we reached the window, Madelyn was half across the lawn. Perhaps twenty yards ahead of her, towered a huge maple, rustling in the early morning breeze.
I realized that this was the spot where Raymond Rennick had met his death.
In spite of his nervousness, Senator Duffield did not forget his old-fashioned courtliness, which I believe had become second nature to him. Stepping aside with a slight bow, he held the window open for me, following at my shoulder. As we reached the lawn, I saw that the scene of the murder was in plain view from at least one of the principal rooms of the Duffield home.
Madelyn was leaning against the maple when we reached her. Senator Duffield said gravely, as he pointed to the gnarled trunk, “You are standing just at the point where the woman waited, Miss Mack.”
“Woman?”
“I refer to the assassin,” the Senator rejoined a trifle impatiently. “Judging by our fragmentary clues, she must have been hidden behind the trunk when poor Rennick appeared on the driveway. We found her slipper somewhat to the left of the tree—a matter of eight or ten feet, I should say.”
“Oh!” said Madelyn listlessly. I fancied that she was somewhat annoyed that we had followed her.
“An odd clue, that slipper,” the Senator continued with an obvious attempt to maintain the conversation. “If we were disposed to be fanciful, it might suggest the childhood legend of Cinderella.”
Madelyn did not answer. She stood leaning back against the tree with her eyes wandering about the yard. Once I saw her gaze flash down the driveway to the open gate, where the detective, Martin, stood watching us furtively.
“Nora,” she said, without turning, “will you kindly walk six steps to your right?”
I knew better than to ask the reason for the request. With a shrug, I faced toward the house, and came to a pause at the end of the stipulated distance.
“Is Miss Noraker standing where Mr. Rennick’s body was found, Senator?”
“She will strike the exact spot, I think, if she takes two steps more.”
I had hardly obeyed the suggestion when I caught the swift rustle of skirts behind me. I whirled to see Madelyn’s lithe form darting toward me with her right hand raised as though it held a weapon.
“Good!” she cried. “I call you to witness, Senator, that I was fully six feet away when she turned! Now I want you to take Miss Noraker’s place. The instant you hear me behind you—the instant, mind you—I want you to let me know.”
She walked back to the tree as the Senator reluctantly changed places with me. I could almost picture the murderess dashing upon her victim as Madelyn bent forward. The Senator turned his back to us with a rather ludicrous air of bewilderment.
My erratic friend had covered perhaps half of the distance between her and our host when he spun about with a cry of discovery. She paused with a long breath.
“Thank you, Senator. What first attracted your attention to me?”
“The rustle of your dress, of course!”
Madelyn turned to me with the first smile of satisfaction I had seen since we entered the Duffield gate.
“Was the same true in your case, Nora?”
I nodded. “The fact that you are a woman hopelessly betrayed you. If you had not been hampered by petticoats——”
Madelyn broke in upon my sentence with that peculiar freedom which she always reserves to herself. “There are two things I would like to ask of you, Senator, if I may.”
“I am at your disposal, I assure you.”
“I would like to borrow a Boston directory, and the services of a messenger.”
We walked slowly up the driveway, Madelyn again relapsing into her preoccupied silence and Senator Duffield making no effort to induce her to speak.
IV
We had nearly reached the veranda when there was the sound of a motor at the gate, and a red touring car swept into the yard. An elderly, clean-shaven man, in a long frock coat and a broad-brimmed felt hat, was sharing the front seat with the chauffeur. He sprang to the ground with extended hand as our host stepped forward to greet him. The two exchanged half a dozen low sentences at the side of the machine, and then Senator Duffield raised his voice as they approached us.
“Miss Mack, allow me to introduce my colleague, Senator Burroughs.”
“I have heard of you, of course. Miss Mack,” the Senator said genially, raising his broad-brimmed hat with a flourish. “I am very glad, indeed, that you are able to give us the benefit of your experience in this, er—unfortunate affair. I presume that it is too early to ask if you have developed a theory?”
“I wonder if you would allow me to reverse the question?” Madelyn responded as she took his hand.
“I fear that my detective ability would hardly be of much service to you, eh, Duffield?”
Our host smiled faintly as he turned to repeat to a servant Madelyn’s request for a directory and a messenger. Senator Burroughs folded his arms as his chauffeur circled on toward the garage. There was an odd suggestion of nervousness in the whole group. Or was it fancy?
“Have you ever given particular study to the legal angle in your cases, Miss Mack?” The question came from Senator Burroughs as we ascended the steps.
“The legal angle? I am afraid I don’t grasp your meaning.”
The Senator’s hand moved mechanically toward his cigar case. “I am a lawyer, and perhaps I argue unduly from a lawyer’s viewpoint. We always work from the question of motive, Miss Mack. A professional detective, I believe,—or at least, the average professional detective,—tries to find the criminal first and establish his motive afterward.”
“Now, in a case such as this, Senator——”
“In a case such as this, Miss Mack, the trained legal mind would delve first for the motive in Mr. Rennick’s assassination.”
“And your legal mind, Senator, I presume, has delved for the motive. Has it found it?”
The Senator turned his unlighted cigar reflectively between his lips. “I have not found it! Eliminating the field of sordid passion and insanity, I divide the motives of the murderer under three heads—robbery, jealousy, and revenge. In the present case, I eliminate the first possibility at the outset. There remain then only the two latter.”
“You are interesting. You forget, however, a fourth motive,—the strongest spur to crime in the human mind!”
Senator Burroughs took his cigar from his mouth.
“I mean the motive of—fear!” Madelyn said abruptly, as she swept into the house. When I followed her. Senator Burroughs had walked over to the railing and stood staring down at the ground below. He had tossed his cigar away.
In the room where we had breakfasted, one of the stable boys stood awkwardly awaiting Madelyn Mack’s orders, while John Dorrence, the valet, was just laying a city directory on the table.
“Nora,” she said, as she turned to the boy, “will you kindly look up the list of packing houses?”
“Pick out the largest and give me the address,” she continued, as I ran my finger through the closely typed pages. With a growing curiosity, I selected a firm whose prestige was advertised in heavy letters. Madelyn’s fountain pen scratched a dozen lines across a sheet of her note-book, and she thrust it into an envelope and extended it to the stable lad.
As the youth backed from the room, Senator Duffield appeared at the window.
“I presume it will be possible for me to see Mr. Rennick’s body, Senator?” Madelyn Mack asked.
Our host bowed.
“Also, I would like to look at his clothes—the suit he was wearing at the time of his death, I mean—and, when I am through, I want twenty or thirty minutes alone in his room. If Mr. Taylor should arrive before I am through, will you kindly let me know?”
“I can assure you, Miss Mack, that the police have been through Mr. Rennick’s apartment with a microscope.”
“Then there can be no objection to my going through it with mine! By the way, Mr. Rennick’s glasses—the pair that was found under his body—were packed with his clothes, were they not?”
“Certainly,” the Senator responded.
I did not accompany Madelyn into the darkened room where the corpse of the murdered man was reposing. To my surprise, she rejoined me in less than five minutes.
“What did you find?” I queried as we ascended the stairs.
“A five-inch cut just above the sixth rib.”
“That is what the newspapers said.”
“You are mistaken. They said a three-inch cut. Have you ever tried to plunge a dagger through five inches of human flesh?”
“Certainly not.”
“I have.”
Accustomed as I was to Madelyn Mack’s eccentricities, I stood stock still and stared into her face.
“Oh, I’m not a murderess! I refer to my dissecting room experiences.”
We had reached the upper hall when there was a quick movement at my shoulder, and I saw my companion’s hand dart behind my waist. Before I could quite grasp the situation, she had caught my right arm in a grip of steel. For an instant I thought she was trying to force me back down the stairs. Then the force of her hold wrung a low cry of pain from my lips. She released me with a rueful apology.
“Forgive me, Nora! For a woman, I pride myself that I have a strong wrist!”
“Yes, I think you have!”
“Perhaps now you can appreciate what I mean when I say that even I haven’t strength enough to inflict the wound that killed Raymond Rennick!”
“Then we must be dealing with an Amazon.”
“Would Cinderella’s missing slipper fit an Amazon?” she answered drily.
As she finished her sentence, we paused before a closed door which I rightly surmised led into the room of the murdered secretary. Madelyn’s hand was on the knob when there was a step behind us, and Senator Duffield joined us with a rough bundle in his hands.
“Mr. Rennick’s clothes,” he explained. Madelyn nodded.
“Inspector Taylor left them in my care to hold until the inquest.”
Madelyn flung the door open without comment and led the way inside. Slipping the string from the bundle, she emptied the contents out on to the counterpane of the bed. They comprised the usual warm weather outfit of a well-dressed man, who evidently avoided the extremes of fashion, and she deftly sorted the articles into small, neat piles. She glanced up with an expression of impatience.
“I thought you said they were here, Mr. Duffield!”
“What?”
“Mr. Rennick’s glasses! Where are they?”
Senator Duffield fumbled in his pocket. “I beg your pardon, Miss Mack. I had overlooked them,” he apologized, as he produced a thin paper parcel.
Madelyn carried it to the window and carefully unwrapped it.
“You will find the spectacles rather badly damaged, I fear. One lens is completely ruined.”
Madelyn placed the broken glasses on the sill, and raised the blind to its full height. Then she dropped to her knees and whipped out her microscope. When she arose, her small, black-clad figure was tense with suppressed excitement.
A fat oak chiffonier stood in the corner nearest her. Crossing to its side, she rummaged among the articles that littered its surface, opened and closed the top drawer, and stepped back with an expression of annoyance. A writing table was the next point of her search, with results which I judged to be equally fruitless. She glanced uncertainly from the bed to the three chairs, the only other articles of furniture that the room contained. Then her eyes lighted again as they rested on the broad, carved mantel that spanned the empty fireplace.
It held the usual collection of bric-a-brac of a bachelor’s room. At the end farthest from us, however, there was a narrow, red case, of which I caught only an indistinct view when Madelyn’s hand closed over it.
She whirled toward us. “I must ask you to leave me alone now, please!”
The Senator flushed at the peremptory command. I stepped into the hall and he followed me, with a shrug. He was closing the door when Madelyn raised her voice. “If Inspector Taylor is below, kindly send him up at once!”
“And what about the inquest, Miss Mack?”
“There will be no inquest—to-day!”
Senator Duffield led the way down stairs without a word. In the hall below, a ruddy-faced man, with grey hair, a thin grey beard and moustache, and a grey suit—suggesting any army officer in civilian clothes—was awaiting us. I could readily imagine that Inspector Taylor was something of a disciplinarian in the Boston police department. Also, relying on Madelyn Mack’s estimate, he was one of the three shrewdest detectives on the American continent.
Senator Duffield hurried toward him with a suggestion of relief. “Miss Mack is up-stairs, Inspector, and requested me to send you to her the moment you arrived.”
“Is she in Mr. Rennick’s room?”
The Senator nodded. The Inspector hesitated as though about to ask another question and then, as though thinking better of it, bowed and turned to the stairs.
Inspector Taylor was one of those few policemen who had the honor of being numbered among Madelyn Mack’s personal friends, and I fancied that he welcomed the news of her arrival.
Fletcher Duffield was chatting somewhat aimlessly with Senator Burroughs as we sauntered out into the yard again. None of the ladies of the family were visible. The plain clothes man was still lounging disconsolaltely in the vicinity of the gate. There was a sense of unrest in the scene, a vague expectancy. Although no one voiced the suggestion, we might all have been waiting to catch the first clap of distant thunder.
As Senator Duffield joined the men, I wandered across to the dining-room window. I fancied the room was deserted, but I was mistaken. As I faced about toward the driveway, a low voice caught my ear from behind the curtains.
“You are Miss Mack’s friend, are you not? No, don’t turn around, please!”
But I had already faced toward the open door. At my elbow was a white-capped maid—with her face almost as white as her cap—whom I remembered to have seen at breakfast.
“Yes, I am Miss Mack’s friend. What can I do for you?”
“I have a message for her. Will you see that she gets it?”
“Certainly.”
“Tell her that I was at the door of Senator Duffield’s library the night before the murder.”
My face must have expressed my bewilderment. For an instant I fancied the girl was about to run from the room. I stepped through the window and put my arm about her shoulders. She smiled faintly.
“I don’t know much about the law, and evidence, and that sort of thing—and I am afraid! You will take care of me, won’t you?”
“Of course, I will, Anna. Your name is Anna, isn’t it?”
The girl was rapidly recovering her self possession. “I thought you ought to know what happened Tuesday night. I was passing the door of the library—it was fairly late, about ten o’clock, I think—when I heard a man’s voice inside the room. It was a loud, angry voice like that of a person in a quarrel. Then I heard a second voice, lower and much calmer.”
“Did you recognize the speakers?”
“They were Mr. Rennick and Senator Duffield!”
I caught my breath. “You said one of them was angry. Which was it?”
“Oh, it was the Senator! He was very much excited and worked up. Mr. Rennick seemed to be speaking very low.”
“What were they saying, Anna?” I tried to make my tones careless and indifferent, but they trembled in spite of myself.
“I couldn’t catch what Mr. Rennick said. The Senator was saying some dreadful things. I remember he cried, ‘You swindlers!’ And then a bit later ‘I have evidence that should put you and your thieving crew behind the bars!’ I think that is all. I was too bewildered to——”
A stir on the lawn interrupted the sentence.
Madelyn Mack and Inspector Taylor had appeared. At the sound of their voices, the girl broke from my arm and darted toward the door.
Through the window, I heard the Inspector’s heavy tones, as he announced curtly, “I am telephoning the coroner, Senator, that we are not ready for the inquest to-day. We must postpone it until to-morrow.”
V
The balance of the day passed without incident. In fact, I found the subdued quiet of the Duffield home becoming irksome as evening fell. I saw little of Madelyn Mack. She disappeared shortly after luncheon behind the door of her room, and I did not see her again until the dressing bell rang for dinner. Senator Duffield left for the city with Mr. Burroughs at noon, and his car did not bring him back until dark. The women of the family remained in their apartments during the entire day, nor could I wonder at the fact. A morbid crowd of curious sight-seers was massed about the gates almost constantly, and it was necessary to send a call for two additional policemen to keep them back. In spite of the vigilance, frequent groups of newspaper men managed to slip into the grounds, and, after half a dozen experiences in frantically dodging a battery of cameras, I decided to stick to the shelter of the house.
It was with a feeling of distinct relief that I heard the door of Madelyn’s room open and her voice calling to me to enter. I found her stretched on a lounge before the window, with a mass of pillows under her head.
“Been asleep?” I asked.
“No—to tell the truth, I’ve been too busy.”
“What? In this room!”
“This is the first time I’ve been here since noon!”
“Then where——”
“Nora, don’t ask questions!”
I turned away with a shrug that brought a laugh from the lounge. Madelyn rose and shook out her skirts. I sat watching her as she walked across to the mirror and stood patting the great golden masses of her hair.
A low tap on the door interrupted her. Dorrence, the valet, stood outside as she opened it, extending an envelope. Madelyn fumbled it as she walked back. She let the envelope flutter to the floor and I saw that it contained only a blank sheet of paper. She thrust it into her pocket without explanation.
“How would you like a long motor ride, Nora?”
“For business or pleasure?”
“Pleasure! The day’s work is finished! I don’t know whether you agree with me or not, but I am strongly of the opinion that a whirl out under the elms of Cambridge, and then on to Concord and Lexington would be delightful in the moonlight. What do you say?”
The clock was hovering on the verge of midnight and the household had retired when we returned. Madelyn was in singularly cheery spirits. The low refrain which she was humming as the car swung into the grounds—“Schubert’s Serenade,” I think it was—ceased only when we stepped on to the veranda, and realized that we were entering the house of the dead.
I turned off my lights in silence, and glanced undecidedly from the bed to the rocker by the window. The cool night breeze beckoned me to the latter, and I drew the chair back a pace and cuddled down among the cushions. The lawn was almost silver under the flood of the moonlight, recalling vaguely the sweep of the ocean on a midsummer night. Back and forth along the edge of the gate the figure of a man was pacing like a tired sentinel. It was the plain-clothes officer from headquarters. His figure suggested a state of siege. We might have been surrounded by a skulking enemy. Or was the enemy within, and the sentinel stationed to prevent his escape? I stumbled across to the bed and to sleep, with the question echoing oddly through my brain.
When I opened my eyes, the sun was throwing a yellow shaft of light across my bed, but it wasn’t the sun that had awakened me. Madelyn was standing in the doorway, dressed, with an expression on her face which brought me to my elbow.
“What has happened now?”
“Burglars!”
“Burglars?” I repeated dully.
“I am going down to the library. Some one is making news for us fast, Nora! When will it be our turn?”
I dressed in record-breaking time, with my curiosity whetted by sounds of suppressed excitement which forced their way into the upper hall. The Duffield home not only was early astir, but was rudely jarred out of its customary routine.
When I descended, I found a nervous group of servants clustered about the door of the library. They stood aside to let me pass, with attitudes of uneasiness which I surmised would mean a wholesale series of “notices” if the strange events in the usually well regulated household continued.
Behind the closed door of the library were Senator Duffield, his son, Fletcher, and Madelyn Mack. It was easy to appreciate at a glance the unusual condition of the room. At the right, one of the long windows, partly raised, showed the small, round hole of a diamond cutter just over the latch. It was obvious where the clandestine entrance and exit had been obtained. The most noticeable feature of the apartment, however, was a small, square safe in the corner, with its heavy lid swinging awkwardly ajar, and the rug below littered with a heap of papers, that had evidently been torn from its neatly tabulated series of drawers. The burglarious hands either had been very angry or very much in a hurry. Even a number of unsealed envelopes had been ripped across, as though the pillager had been too impatient to extract their contents in the ordinary manner. To a man of Senator Duffield’s methodical habits, it was easy to imagine that the scene had been a severe wrench.
Madelyn was speaking in her quick, incisive tones as I entered.
“Are you quite sure of that fact, Senator?” she asked sharply, as I closed the door and joined the trio.
“Quite sure, Miss Mack!”
“Then nothing is missing, absolutely nothing?”
“Not a single article, valuable or otherwise!”
“I presume then there were articles of more or less value in the safe?”
“There was perhaps four hundred dollars in loose bills in my private cash drawer, and, so far as I know, there is not a dollar gone.”
“How about your papers and memoranda?”
The Senator shook his head.
“There was nothing of the slightest use to a stranger. As a matter of fact, just two days ago, I took pains to destroy the only portfolio of valuable documents in the safe.”
Madelyn stooped thoughtfully over the litter of papers on the rug. “You mean three evenings ago, don’t you?”
“How on earth, Miss Mack——”
“You refer to the memoranda that you and Mr. Rennick were working on the night before his death, do you not?”
“Of course!” And then I saw Senator Duffield was staring at his curt questioner as though he had said something he hadn’t meant to.
“I think you told me once before that the combination of your safe was known only to yourself and Mr. Rennick?”
“You are correct.”
“Then, to your knowledge, you are the only living person who possesses this information at the present time?”
“That is the case. It was a rather intricate combination, and we changed it hardly a month ago.”
Madelyn rose from the safe, glanced reflectively at a huge leather chair, and sank into its depths with a sigh.
“You say nothing has been stolen, Senator, that the burglar’s visit yielded him nothing. For your peace of mind, I would like to agree with you, but I am sorry to inform you that you are mistaken.”
“Surely, Miss Mack, you are hasty! I am confident that I have searched my possessions with the utmost care.”
“Nevertheless, you have been robbed!”
Senator Duffield glanced down at her small, lithe figure impatiently. “Then, perhaps, you will be good enough to tell me of what my loss consists?”
“I refer to the article for which your secretary was murdered! It was stolen from this room last night.”
Had the point of a dagger pressed against Senator Duffield’s shoulders, he could not have bounded forward in greater consternation. His composure was shattered like a pane of glass crumbling.
He sprang toward the safe with a cry like a man in sudden fear or agony. Jerking back its door, he plunged his hand into its lower left compartment. When he straightened, he held a long, wax phonograph record.
His dismay had vanished in a quick blending of relief and anger, as his eyes swept from the cylinder to the grave figure of Madelyn Mack.
“I fail to appreciate your joke, Miss Mack—if you call it a joke to frighten a man without cause as you have me!”
“Have you examined the record in your hand, Senator?”
Fletcher Duffield and I stared at the two. There was a suggestion of tragedy in the scene as the impatience and irritation gradually faded from the Senator’s face.
“It is a substitute!” he groaned. “A substitute! I have been tricked, victimized, robbed!”
He stood staring at the wax record as though it were a heated iron burning into his flesh. Suddenly it slipped from his fingers and was shattered on the floor.
But he did not appear to notice the fact as he burst out, “Do you realize that you are standing here inactive while the thief is escaping? I don’t know how your wit surprised my secret, and don’t care now, but you are throwing away your chances of stopping the burglar while he may be putting miles between himself and us! Are you made of ice, woman? Can’t you appreciate what this means? In the name of heaven, Miss Mack——”
“The thief will not escape, Mr. Duffield!”
“It seems to me that he has already escaped.”
“Let me assure you, Senator, that your missing property is as secure as though it were locked in your safe at this moment!”
“But do you realize that, once a hint of its nature is known, it will be almost worthless to me?”
“Better perhaps than you do,—so well that I pledge myself to return it to your hands within the next half hour!”
Senator Duffield took three steps forward until he stood so close to Madelyn that he could have reached over and touched her on the shoulder.
“I am an old man, Miss Mack, and the last two days have brought me almost to a collapse. If I have appeared unduly sharp, I tender you my apologies—but do not give me false hopes! Tell me frankly that you cannot encourage me. It will be a kindness. You will realize that I cannot blame you.”
Senator Duffield’s imperious attitude was so broken that I could hardly believe it possible that the same man who ruled a great political party, almost by the swaying of his finger, was speaking. Madelyn caught his hand with a grasp of assurance.
“I will promise even more.” She snapped open her watch. “If you will return to this room at nine o’clock, not only will I restore your stolen property—but I will deliver the murderer of Raymond Rennick!”
“Rennick’s murderer?” the Senator gasped.
Madelyn bowed. “In this room at nine o’clock.”
I think I was the first to move toward the door. Fletcher Duffield hesitated a moment, staring at Madelyn; then he turned and hurried past me down the hall.
His father followed more slowly. As he closed the door, I saw Madelyn standing where we had left her, leaning back against her chair, and staring at a woman’s black slipper. It was the one which had been found by Raymond Rennick’s dead body.
I made my way mechanically toward the dining-room, and was surprised to find that the members of the Duffield family were already at the table. With the exception of Madelyn, it was the same breakfast group as the morning before. In another house, this attempt to maintain the conventions in the face of tragedy might have seemed incongruous; but it was so thoroughly in keeping with the self-contained Duffield character that, after the first shock, I realized it was not at all surprising. I fancy that we all breathed a sigh of relief, however, when the meal was over.
We were rising from the table, when a folded note, addressed to the Senator, was handed to the butler from the hall. He glanced through it hurriedly, and held up his hand for us to wait.
“This is from Miss Mack. She requests me to have all of the members of the family, and those servants who have furnished any evidence in connection with the, er—murder”—the Senator winced as he spoke the word—“to assemble in the library at nine o’clock. I think that we owe it both to ourselves and to her to obey her instructions to the letter. Perkins, will you kindly notify the servants?”
As it happened, Madelyn’s audience in the library was increased by two spectators she had not named. The tooting of a motor sounded without, and the tall figure of Senator Burroughs met us as we were leaving the dining-room. Senator Duffield took his arm with a glance of relief, and explained the situation as he forced him to accompany us.
VI
In the library, we found for the first time that Madelyn was not alone. Engaged in a low conversation with her, which ceased as we entered, was Inspector Taylor. He had evidently been designated as the spokesman of the occasion.
“Is everybody here?” he asked.
“I think so,” Senator Duffield replied. “There are really only five of the servants who count in the case.”
Madelyn’s eyes flashed over the circle. “Close the door, please, Mr. Taylor. I think you had better lock it also.”
“There are fourteen persons in this room,” she continued, “counting, of course, Inspector Taylor, Miss Noraker and myself. We may safely be said to be outside the case. There are then eleven persons here connected in some degree with the tragedy. It is in this list of eleven that I have searched for the murderer. I am happy to tell you that my search has been successful!”
Senator Duffield was the first to speak. “You mean to say, Miss Mack, that the murderer is in this room at the present time?”
“Correct.”
“Then you accuse one of this group——”
“Of dealing the blow which killed your secretary, and, later, of plundering your safe.”
Inspector Taylor moved quietly to a post between the two windows. Escape from the room was barred. I darted a stealthy glance around the circle in an effort to surprise a trace of guilt in the faces before me, and was startled to find my neighbors engaged in the same furtive occupation. Of the women of the family, the Senator’s wife had compressed her lips as though, as the mistress of the house, she felt the need of maintaining her composure in any situation, Maria was toying with her bracelet, while Beth made no effort to conceal her agitation.
Senator Burroughs was studying the pattern of the carpet with a face as inscrutable as a mask, Fletcher Duffield was sitting back in his chair, his hands in his pockets. His father was leaning against the locked door, his eyes flashing from face to face. With the exception of Dorrence, the valet, and Perkins, the butler, who I do not think would have been stirred out of their stolidness had the ceiling fallen, the servants were in an utter panic. Two of the maids were plainly bordering on hysterics.
Such was the group that faced Madelyn in the Duffield library. One of the number was a murderer, whom the next ten minutes were to brand as such. Which was it? Instinctively my eyes turned again toward the three women of the Duffield family, as Madelyn walked across to a portiere which screened a corner of the apartment.
Jerking it aside, she showed, suspended from a hook in the ceiling, a quarter of fresh veal.
On an adjoining stand was a long, thin-bladed knife, which might have been a dagger, ground to a razor-edge. Madelyn held it before her as she turned to us.
“This is the weapon which killed Mr. Rennick.”
I fancied I heard a gasp as she spoke. Although I whirled almost on the instant, however, I could detect no signs of it in the faces behind me.
“I propose to conduct a short experiment, which I assure you is absolutely necessary to my chain of reasoning,” Madelyn continued. “You may or may not know that the body of a calf practically offers the same degree of resistance to a knife as the body of a man. Dead flesh, of course, is harder and firmer than living flesh, but I think that, adding the thickness of clothes, we may take it for granted that in the quarter of veal before us, we have a fair substitute for the body of Raymond Rennick. Now watch me closely, please!”
Drawing back her arm, she plunged her knife into the meat with a force which sent it spinning on its hook. She drew the knife out, and examined it reflectively.
“I have made a cut of only a little more than three and a half inches. The blow which killed Mr. Rennick penetrated at least five inches.
“Here we encounter a singularly striking feature of our case, involving a stratagem which I think I can safely say is the most unique in my experience. To all intents, it was a woman who killed Mr. Rennick. In fact, it has been taken for granted that he met his death at the hand of a female assassin. We must dispose of this conclusion at the outset, for the simple reason that it was physically impossible for a woman to have dealt the deathblow!”
I chanced to be gazing directly at Fletcher Duffield as Madelyn made the statement. An expression of such relief flashed into his face that instinctively I turned about and followed the direction of his glance. His eyes were fixed on his sister, Beth.
Madelyn deposited the knife on the stand.
“Indeed, I may say there are few men—perhaps not one in ten—with a wrist strong enough to have dealt Mr. Rennick’s death blow,” she went on. “There is only one such person among the fourteen in this room at the present time.
“Again you will recall that the wound was delivered from the rear just as Mr. Rennick faced about in his own defense. Had he been attacked by a woman, he would have heard the rustle of her dress several feet before she possibly could have reached him. I think you will recall my demonstration of that fact yesterday morning, Mr. Duffield.
“Obviously then, it is a man whom we must seek if we would find the murderer of your secretary, and a man of certain peculiar characteristics. Two of these I can name now. He possessed a wrist developed to an extraordinary degree, and he owned feet as small and shapely as a woman’s. Otherwise, the stratagem of wearing a woman’s slippers and leaving one of them near the scene of the crime to divert suspicion from himself, would never have occurred to him!”
Again I thought I heard a gasp behind me, but its owner escaped me a second time.
“There was a third marked feature among the physical characteristics of the murderer. He was near-sighted—so much so that it was necessary for him to wear glasses of the kind known technically as a ‘double lens.’ Unfortunately for the assassin, when his victim fell, the latter caught the glasses in his hand and they were broken under his body. The murderer may have been thrown into a panic, and feared to take the time to recover his spectacles; but it was a fatal blunder. Fortune, however, might have helped him even then in spite of this fact, for those who found the body fell into the natural error of considering the glasses to be the property of the murdered man. Had it not been for two minor details, this impression might never have been contradicted.”
Madelyn held up a packet of newspaper illustrations. Several of them I recognized as the pictures of the murdered secretary that she had shown me at the “Roanoke.” The others were also photographs of the same man.
“If Mr. Rennick hadn’t been fond of having his picture taken, the fact that he never wore glasses on the street might not have been noticed. None of his pictures, not even the snap-shots, showed a man in spectacles. It is true that he did possess a pair, and it is here where those who discovered the crime went astray. But they were for reading purposes only, the kind termed a .125 lens, while those of his assailant were a .210 lens. To clinch the matter, I later found Mr. Rennick’s own spectacles in his room where he had left them the evening before.”
Madelyn held up the red leather case she had found on the mantel-piece, and tapped it musingly as she gave a slight nod to Inspector Taylor.
“We have now the following description of the murderer—a slenderly built man, with an unusual wrist, possibly an athlete at one time, who possesses a foot capable of squeezing into a woman’s shoe, and who is handicapped by near-sightedness. Is there an individual in this room to whom this description applies?”
There was a new glitter in Madelyn’s eyes as she continued.
“Through the co-operation of Inspector Taylor, I am enabled to answer this question. Mr. Taylor has traced the glasses of the assassin to the optician who gave the prescription for them. I am not surprised to find that the owner of the spectacles tallies with the owner of these other interesting articles.”
With the words, she whisked from the stand at her elbow, the long, narrow-bladed dagger, and a pair of soiled, black suede slippers.
There was a suggestion of grotesque unreality about it all. It was much as though I had been viewing the denouement of a play from the snug vantage point of an orchestra seat, waiting for the lights to flare up and the curtain to ring down. A shriek ran through my ears, jarring me back to the realization that I was not a spectator, but a part, of the play.
A figure darted toward the window. It was John Dorrence, the valet.
The next instant Inspector Taylor threw himself on the fleeing man’s shoulders, and the two went to the floor.
“Can you manage him?” Madelyn called.
“Unless he prefers cold steel through his body to cold steel about his wrists,” was the rejoinder.
“I think you may dismiss the other servants, Senator,” Madelyn said. “I wish, however, that the family would remain a few moments.”
As the door closed again, she continued, “I promised you also, Senator, the return of your stolen property. I have the honor to make that promise good.”
From her stand, which was rapidly assuming the proportions of a conjurer’s table, she produced a round, brown paper parcel.
“Before I unwrap this, have I your permission to explain its contents?”
“As you will, Miss Mack.”
“Perhaps the most puzzling feature of the tragedy is the motive. It is this parcel which supplies us with the answer.
“Your secretary, Mr. Duffield, was an exceptional young man. Not only did he repeatedly resist bribery such as comes to few men, but he gave his life for his trust.
“At any time since this parcel came into his possession, he could have sold it for a fortune. Because he refused to sell it, he was murdered for it. Perhaps every reader of the newspapers is more or less familiar with Senator Duffield’s investigations of the ravages of a certain great Trust. A few days ago, the Senator came into possession of evidence against the combine of such a drastic nature that he realized it would mean nothing less than the annihilation of the monopoly, imprisonment for the chief officers, and a business sensation such as this country has seldom known.
“Once the officers of the Trust knew of his evidence, however, they would be fore-armed in such a manner that its value would be largely destroyed. The evidence was a remarkable piece of detective work. It consisted of a phonographic record of a secret directors’ meeting, laying bare the inmost depredations of the corporation.”
Madelyn paused as the handcuffed valet showed signs of a renewed struggle. Inspector Taylor without comment calmly snapped a second pair of bracelets about his feet.
“The Trust was shrewd enough to appreciate the value of a spy in the Duffield home. Dorrence was engaged for the post, and from what I have learned of his character, he filled it admirably. How he stumbled on Senator Duffield’s latest coup is immaterial. The main point is that he tried to bribe Mr. Rennick so persistently to betray his post that the latter threatened to expose him. Partly in the fear that he would carry out his threat, and partly in the hope that he carried memoranda which might lead to the discovery of the evidence that he sought, Dorrence planned and carried out the murder.
“In the secretary’s pocket he discovered the combination of the safe, and made use of it last night. I found the stolen phonograph record this morning behind the register of the furnace pipe in Dorrence’s room. I had already found that this was his cache, containing the dagger which killed Rennick, and the second of Cinderella’s slippers. The pair was stolen some days ago from the room of Miss Beth Duffield.”
The swirl of the day was finally over. Dorrence had been led to his cell; the coroner’s jury had returned its verdict; and all that was mortal of Raymond Rennick had been laid in its last resting place.
Madelyn and I had settled ourselves in the homeward bound Pullman as it rumbled out of the Boston station in the early dusk.
“There are two questions I want to ask,” I said reflectively.
Madelyn looked up from her newspaper with a yawn.
“Why did John Dorrence bring you back a blank sheet of paper when you dispatched him on your errand?”
“As a matter of fact, there was nothing else for him to bring back. Mr. Taylor kept him at police headquarters long enough to give me time to carry out my search through his room. The message was a blind.”
“And what was the quarrel that the servant girl, Anna, heard in the Duffield library?”
“It wasn’t a quarrel, my dear girl. It was the Senator preparing the speech with which he intended to launch his evidence against the Trust. The Senator is in the habit of dictating his speeches to a phonograph. Some of them, I am afraid, are rather fiery.”