FORTY girls, from the little blonde, with the puckery lips and the perky, big red bow over her left ear, to the soulful brunette on the other end, with the flat, ratless hair, and the Madonna eyes, glided down the stage in a riot of buff and lavender draperies, very-much-agitated, very-high-heeled pumps, very-well-filled silk stockings—and a fusillade of devastating smiles.
Peter P. Peterson, theatrical magnate, from his vantage-point at the rear of the house, let a twinkle slip into his little, round eyes, almost as bright as the huge diamond-stud on his crumpled shirt-front. He was acclaimed a connoisseur of catchy choruses, and catchy chorus-girls, by the ultra-critical judges of Broadway, and the finale of the first act of that eccentric musical comedy, “The Girl from Milwaukee,” was adding another notch to his carefully nursed reputation.
Peter P. Peterson deepened his twinkle until it over-shadowed the flash of his diamond-stud as the forty girls on the stage broke their rear rank in a gliding side movement. Through the aperture, a dozen chorus-boys, dressed in old Dutch burgher style, staggered on to the stage, bearing on their padded shoulders a black-lettered barrel, labeled “Lager.”
With a crash, the orchestra burst into the chorus of “That Old Milwaukee Brew.” The forty girls swung forty steins above their heads in the excess of forty different thirsts—and charged the barrel like an army at an enemy’s ramparts.
From its top, a tall stein slowly raised itself. For a moment it stood poised, and then its sides gradually dissolved—revealing within, in a soft golden brown glow, the face of a young woman, smiling at the audience for all the world as though she were a bewildering fantasy of the brew.
The orchestra glided into the popular strains of “I’ll Drink to the Girl Who Drinks With Me,” the mellow baritone of Archibald Clavering, the leading man, caught up the words, and the refrain was answered by the rich soprano of the girl in the stein—Ariel Burton, the “star,” who had sprung into the Broadway horizon six months before—and out-dazzled all the other dazzling stars in that earthly firmament ever since.
Five times the curtain rose and fell. It was a record-breaking hit. Peter P. Peterson waddled contentedly back to the box-office to receive the congratulations of the critics, and double his advertising space in the morning papers, and arrange for the announcement—“Sold Out for a Solid Five Weeks in Advance.”
In the theatre, the applause was still continuing, rising and falling like surf. Still imprisoned in the stein, Miss Burton had tried to throw a kiss with her cramped hands; but the bored first-nighters, with their palates, for once, thoroughly tickled, were not satisfied.
The curtain ascended again, with the flushing “star,” released from her imprisonment, stepping toward the footlights, with one of her jerky, characteristic bows. An usher was extending a huge, satin-tied bouquet.
“White orchids!” gasped a dowager, with her pearl lorgnette riveted to her eyes.
“Worth every cent of a hundred dollars!” breathed the wide-eyed debutante at her side. “I’ll wager she bought them herself for an advertisement!”
The dowager glared in scorn, and pointed a fat finger, almost imperceptibly, toward the occupants of an opposite box.
“Bought it herself! It came from Sewell Collins! Can’t you see her smiling up at him? Fancy an old man like that! They say he is idiotic over her!”
“But, surely, Auntie, there is nothing serious between them?”
“Serious? The old fool is going to marry her—and they say he is to settle a cool million on her the day of the wedding! Why, he gave her a ten-thousand-dollar car last week, and celebrated the occasion with a champagne supper that Bobby Waters said was a disgrace even to Broadway! But, then, that is what all those show-girls are looking for—a millionaire, the older the better!”
“She is pretty, Auntie—very pretty—and young—and—and she doesn’t look like a bad woman!”
The debutante sighed. She, also, was very young, and pretty—and innocent.
On the stage, Ariel Burton was stepping back, with the orchids held close to her bosom. The curtain was already descending. The girl’s eyes dropped carelessly to her bouquet, and then of a sudden her face went white—white as the nestling orchids.
Even under her rouge, her emotion was apparent to those in the boxes. The curtain reached the stage with a thud. Behind it, Ariel Burton had crumpled to the floor. One hand was clenched about the stem of the orchids until her nails had entered her palm.
Madelyn Mack pillowed her head against the back of her chair, drawn into the most shadowy corner of our box, and smiled a trifle wearily. Her hands toyed aimlessly with the handle of her ebony opera glasses, that matched her rather severely tailored black evening gown, and, when I glanced curiously toward her, I saw that her eyes had closed.
I knew the symptoms. In spite of the record-breaking applause sweeping through the theatre, she was—bored. My question was politely perfunctory.
“And how is your Royal Highness enjoying the evening?”
She opened her eyes far enough to send me one of those quizzical, half-veiled glances, which always made me feel like a pig-tailed schoolgirl.
“That blue silk of yours, Nora, is unusually becoming! Mr. Preston should feel decidedly complimented!”
“I asked how the play was appealing to you?” I retorted, severely.
Her eyes closed again. The contrast between the dark, curling lashes and the masses of golden-bronze hair, piled high above her white forehead in the peculiar French fashion she always affected, regardless of prevailing styles, was almost startlingly picturesque. I have always maintained that Madelyn Mack made too little of her personal appearance. Now, if half of her attractions had been possessed by an obscure newspaper girl, like myself, with a ruined complexion, which no veil could protect, and little, work-haggard lines creeping under her eyes in spite of the dollars squeezed from a slender pay envelope into the tills of greedy masseurs.
“Thank you for your implied compliment, Miss Noraker!”
I started guiltily.
“When one’s companion has been trying unsuccessfully to veil her nervousness all evening,” murmured Madelyn, “one is forced to the impoliteness of reading her thoughts. I shouldn’t worry too much about Thorny Preston, if I were you!”
“I’m not!”
“In the first place, a successful playwright like Mr. Preston—this is his third effort, is it not?—has a multitude of other duties on the first night of a new production besides playing gallant to two forlorn women! And, in the second place, if he has fallen victim to the charms of Miss Ariel Burton——”
“But he hasn’t!” And then I added hastily, “and, if he has, why should I care?”
“Exactly!” said Madelyn easily. “Then why have you been allowing it to torment you for the last two weeks?”
“Because it’s an outrage!” I flared. I am always a volcano—when the spark is applied in the right place!
“There is absolutely nothing between Mr. Thorndyke Preston and myself, except a good-fellow comradeship. You know the kind—where a woman meets a man on a man’s basis—takes long walks with him, and talks over his work—and closes her eyes and stops her ears whenever she thinks of a home and kiddies! Oh, I’m not blaming Thorny! But the way that Burton woman is throwing herself at him is nothing short of scandalous—and you know it as well as I do! She is keeping old Sewell Collins dangling at her apron-strings for the benefit of his money bags, and at the same time is trying to inveigle Thorny Preston into making a fool of himself!
“Oh, I mean just that, Miss Madelyn Mack—and I won’t take back a word! But then, she is only twenty-one, and has a smile like Cleopatra—and I am twenty-eight, with crow’s feet, and grey hairs—I found five last night!—And—Thorny is just like other men, I suppose, where a pretty face is concerned. And—and—a good-fellow comradeship isn’t so very satisfying—to a man—is it?”
I finished, gasping, with a dart at my handkerchief, and my face that awfully vivid red, like pickled beets, which I have never been able to subdue whenever I pass a certain degree of excitement.
For a moment, I felt Madelyn’s steady eyes surveying me, with just a hint of wonder at my outbreak, and—and—yes,—pity! I hate sympathy—from a woman!
’Twas then that the curtain rolled up again on the incident of the white orchids.
We were both leaning over the railing when the descending canvas hid Ariel Burton’s swaying form.
Madelyn slipped back into her chair. Above her eyes a single deep line had appeared, like the swift course of a pencil across a blank paper. Her eyes closed again; but I knew that her nerves had sprung to a sudden tension, and I could guess that she was trying to supply the other half of the incident which the curtain had blotted from us.
There came a low knock at the door of our box. I gave a muffled invitation to enter, for my sixth sense—how many senses does a woman have?—told me who it was. Thorndyke Preston stood staring down at us with a flush.
He tried to conceal his emotion, but Thorny never could hide anything, and the effort only served to emphasize his nervousness.
“I have a commission for you, Miss Mack, if you will accept it. Mr. Peterson would like to see you on the stage!”
Madelyn Mack’s eyes wandered over his face, and his flush deepened. “Is it—Miss Burton?”
“It is in connection with Miss Burton. You saw her faint, of course. Peterson fancies there is something queer. He is very excitable anyway, you know, and——”
“But I fail to see where my services come in. Miss Burton is recovering, is she not?”
“Yes—but—oh, hang it all!—please go back, Miss Mack! Peterson is getting on my nerves!”
Thorny’s eyes turned to me pleadingly. “You ask her, Nora!”
I smiled indifferently. “I fancy that Miss Mack can make up her mind without my assistance!” I turned, with a shrug, to gaze over the audience; but, out of the corner of my eye, I could see Thorny’s lips tighten. If he had been alone, I know he would have sworn—and a woman who can make a man swear has not quite lost her power over him!
Madelyn rose with a gesture of submission. “If you will accompany me, Nora——”
I felt Thorny’s eyes again appealing to me, but I kept my gaze steadily averted. I smoothed down my skirts, and caught Madelyn’s arm. Thorny led the way down the thick-carpeted corridor which led behind the boxes to the stage door.
He was a good-looking chap, with a grave, studious expression—which I always accused him of cultivating for effect—and the snugness of his evening clothes showed off his athletic shoulders to excellent advantage. His bearing radiated that indefinable suggestion of success after heart-gripping failures, for Thorny had fought long and hard for every dollar of the Niagara-stream of royalties now flooding him. Our own acquaintance had begun in the days when he was doing a “Man About Town” column for the Sun, at a very modest salary, and I’ll do him the justice to say that his success had not turned his head.
It had not even brought him the luxury of a valet! Once he had cautiously broached the suggestion to me, when he had received twenty-five thousand dollars from “Mademoiselle Satan;” but, after my stony silence, he had never repeated it, and, at the next bachelor dinner in his rooms, I noticed that the valet had not made his appearance. Fancy Thorny with a valet—when I had to press my skirts with an electric iron, attached to my single socket, when the suspicious landlady was away, and burning my hands at every step on the stairs in the fear of discovery!
Thorny held open the stage-door, and waited until both of us had preceded him into the clatter of scene-shifting. With a side glance, I saw him linger behind, and felt a tug on my sleeve.
“I am glad you came to-night, Nora!”
“Are you?” I said coldly, with my eyes on a shirt-sleeved carpenter nailing into place the grey pillar of a Swiss hotel. “By that, you mean I’ll give your old play a nice send off in the Bugle, I suppose?”
I’ll own it was nasty, but I was in the mood for nastiness. I tried hard to look away.
“You’ll regret those words, Nora.”
I was already beginning to, then! If I had only missed that glimpse of him in the park in Ariel Burton’s new car, bending over her furs like a school-boy lover!
“Save your tragedy for your plays!” I said crossly. “Do you realize that you are letting Miss Mack take care of herself?”
He strode toward the little, lithe figure ahead of us. For an instant, my better nature swept to the front. I had already opened my lips to do humble penitence, when he whirled with two little red spots, hardly larger than quarters, burning his cheeks.
“So you are jealous of Ariel Burton, are you? And I had thought you the one woman above such emotions—who could look under the surface, and know a man for what he is! Funny, isn’t it, how blind a chap can be—and what a bump it takes to make him see light?”
I could have screamed. I knew the tears were in my eyes, and I clenched my hands to force them back. Jealous! And Thorny Preston actually with the nerve to throw it in my teeth! For one rioting moment I meditated a swift flight from the stage, leaving him and Madelyn to their own devices. And then I stumbled chokingly after them. After all, I was possessed of the full measure of a woman’s curiosity.
But I would make Mr. Thorndyke Preston repent, never fear! I could picture him on his knees already! A stage-hand crashed into me, and I ducked barely in time to save my new blue silk opera cap, and, incidentally, my head, from a descending plank.
When I recovered my balance, and readjusted my cap, my blood was somewhat cooled—and Madelyn Mack and Thorny had reached the stocky figure of Peterson. The latter bowed with a hasty attempt at cordiality to me as I joined them—Peterson was oily affability from his patent leather tips to his brown toupee whenever a newspaper reporter was in hailing distance!
Just across from us was the portable stage dressing-room which had been erected in the left wing for the accommodation of Miss Burton. Unless special quarters were fitted up for her on the stage she wouldn’t play, you know—and all the rest of the high and mighty threats which go with newly created stardom!
Once the door was shoved open far enough for us to see Miss Burton before her toilet-table, with her hair down, and her shoulders wrapped in a crimson silk negligee, almost the color of blood—she always affected the most out-of-the-ordinary shades! We could see the back of her white-capped, white-aproned maid, bending over a long line of gowns and petticoats against the wall.
Two or three minutes later, two of the stagehands knocked at the door, and dragged out a trunk. Miss Burton was still in her negligee, although her hair had been put up. Once afterward, we heard the actress’ voice raised peevishly, and the maid replying with the discreet humbleness of her class.
Presently you will see my purpose in recounting these details, apparently so trivial. We were to find that nothing was trivial or unworthy of notice in the amazing puzzle into which we were all so soon to be plunged.
With much nervous rubbing of his hands, and much nervous clearing of his throat, Peterson was beginning the statement of his purpose in the summoning of Madelyn, when I came in earshot of the trio.
“I am not a fanciful man, Miss Mack—I have made my success because I wasn’t! But there is something deucedly queer in it all—deucedly queer! And Ariel Burton toppling over like a sixteen-year-old school-miss, on top of everything else, and throwing us all into a panic, and——”
“Will you please start at the beginning, Mr. Peterson, and put what you have to say in a businesslike way?” interrupted Madelyn impatiently.
“That is what I am trying to do!” said Peterson, scowling at Thorny, who was walking nervously back and forth behind us. “The first of those letters came last week, just after dress-rehearsal. It simply told her that she would never finish her first performance in the piece!”
Madelyn’s eyes narrowed. “Typewritten?”
Peterson nodded. “And unsigned. It was worded rather oddly, as though there had been other letters to the same effect; but Miss Burton said not. It impressed me that the writer was hinting at blackmail; but he didn’t say how or why. I am assuming that it was a man, although I don’t know why I should, except that it didn’t sound like a woman, you know!” Peterson paused, still rubbing his red hands together.
“There was another letter a good deal like the first—and then that fainting spell to-night.” Peterson’s little, round eyes fixed themselves suddenly on Madelyn’s face. “That girl was scared when she fell over on the stage—scared! I know the signs!”
“Have you any of those letters with you?”
“I’ll get them for you later. There was one funny thing, though, in both of them. At the bottom of each a thumb had been drawn—an ordinary thumb—and just a little of its top edged with purple ink. There was nothing under it—just the thumb, with the purple edge.” Peterson broke off abruptly. “I want you to stay back here on the stage the rest of the show, Miss Mack—and sort of keep an eye on Miss Burton—you know how—and, of course, she needn’t know! I’ll pay you whatever you ask! It’s probably a crank, and I am foolish to pay any attention to it—and all that—but I have a lot at stake in this show—and I’m nervous—nervous as an old woman! Now, please don’t say you won’t do it!”
“Was there anything in Miss Burton’s bouquet to-night—a note of any kind, I mean?” asked Madelyn abruptly.
“A note?” Peterson considered. “I can find out easily enough, I suppose. The flowers came from Sewell Collins, you know. They say there is a certain florist over on the Avenue that he keeps busy supplying Miss Burton, without regard to the size of the bills. Ten-dollar-a-dozen roses by the dray-load, and so on!” The padded shoulders of Peterson’s evening coat shrugged expressively.
“But, I say,” he continued suddenly, “Preston there can tell you about any note, though. He was the first to reach her when she fainted.”
Thorny stopped in his nervous pacing.
“What was that you were saying, Peterson?”
Peterson stared, and repeated his suggestion.
Thorny shrugged. “No, Miss Mack, there was nothing in the bouquet—nothing, I assure you! I picked it up, myself!”
He resumed his nervous patrol. Madelyn turned with another question to Peterson. A call-boy knocked at Ariel Burton’s door, and, beyond the curtain, we could hear the orchestra swinging into action.
I stooped to fasten my slipper—but the bow was never more secure. On the floor I had seen a narrow white card that had fluttered from Thorny’s pocket. On its upper side a human thumb had been crudely traced, its edge smeared with purple ink! Nothing else—except that the white petal of an orchid was still clinging to it.
I slipped it into my glove. Of course it had been concealed in Ariel Burton’s bouquet Thorny Preston had lied—deliberately lied!
II
By the sudden hush of the orchestra, and its abrupt swing into the opening bars of a conventional musical comedy ballet-number, I knew that the curtain was rising on the second act.
Almost at once, the door of Ariel Burton’s dressing-room opened, and she stepped out in a velvet traveling suit of royal purple with its accessories an exact match, from her purple suede boots to her purple wrist bag, purple parasol, and even the purple willow plumes on her hat. Stunning—if you have superlatives to spare!
For a moment my absorption in another woman’s dress blinded me to the other details of the scene. I awoke from my trance to see Thorny Preston, roused thoroughly out of his preoccupation, stepping toward her, with a silly grin that fairly made me itch to shake him! He caught her arm, with an air of proprietorship, and they walked to the other end of the stage, conversing in whispers. I saw Thorny bow as her cue came, and then, turning, take her hand again and press it—yes, actually press it!—while she lingered, keeping the whole scene waiting.
He saw my eyes fixed on him as he stepped back toward her dressing-room, and he grinned cheerfully, without even the grace to blush. I turned with a contemptuous shrug, and plunged into a conversation with Peterson so lively that that gentleman’s little eyes opened wide. We had not been on congenial terms since 
that day when my signed article in the Bugle had flayed him for ticket-scalping.
A slow, heavy step on the planks of the stage behind us interrupted me in the midst of a particularly inane witticism. A fat-jowled, double-chinned man, with a monocle dangling from under the lapel of his evening coat, stared at us, with a very slight, very stiff-necked inclination of his head.
Peterson’s cordiality, however, could not have been exceeded had the other salaamed to the dusty boards. It was my first good view of Sewell Collins at close range, and I improved the opportunity as Peterson seized the other’s fish-cold hand and swung it up and down like a pump-handle.
Some biographer had once said that Sewell Collins had begun his pyrotechnical life as a molder’s apprentice in a steel foundry—and presumably laid the foundation of his millions from his savings on six dollars a week. I had heard of that kind of man, but I had never seen one before—and I was disappointed. I looked in vain for anything remarkable about Sewell Collins that would explain his Aladdin-rise, but there was nothing—nothing at all masterful or even particularly shrewd.
Instead, he looked like any other much-moneyed, much-massaged, much-pampered old man—except, of course, for the tell-tale trail of the expensive tenderloin on his pudgy face, which even the steam-cloths of the masseur could not quite remove. From the Broadway tales of his spending abilities I was half expecting to see crumply yellow-back bills sticking out of all his pockets, and fluttering to the floor as he walked. But either he had not been immersed long enough in his customary champagne bath, or he was suspicious of his present company!
Sewell Collins had timed his arrival to a nicety. Peterson was still in the throes of his pump-handle greetings when Ariel Burton descended from the “property” automobile, in which she had made her exit from the stage as a brewery-heiress, pursued by a penniless Belgian count, determined to marry her millions if he had to imprison her in his little, old, two-by-four castle to do so!
Collins wrenched away from Peterson’s grasp, and hastened to meet her, with a fawning grin that would have promptly convinced any fair minded judge of his lunacy. (Why is it that an actress, with just one belladonna smile, can reduce the whole masculine sex, from the college rah-rah boy to the old man, with a foot-and-a-half in the grave, to abject senility?)
Thorny Preston was something like a yard ahead of him, however. I saw Collins’ heavylidded eyes gleam as Thorny blocked his path—and then Miss Burton turned away from Mr. Preston as coolly as though he had been a post, and caught both of Sewell Collins’ hands! Thorny stood as motionless as a statue.
I knew that in another minute I would be snickering out loud, and, even as I turned my head, I realized that Thorny had seen my convulsed features, and was biting his lips. Turned down for a stage-door “John,” with a few dozen millions! It was—delicious!
Ariel Burton dismissed Sewell Collins at her dressing-room, and softly closed the door behind her. The much-millionaired Mr. Collins seated his Midas-form on a ninety-eight-cent pine chair, without a back, and stared at the door like a trained bull-dog, waiting for its mistress to reappear.
I strolled over to Madelyn Mack, who had been standing somewhat apart, alternately gazing at a group of chorus-girls, awaiting their cue, and at a trio of perspiring stage-hands, already lifting the back of the next scene into place. Apparently, she had not found the slightest interest in the happenings before Miss Burton’s dressing-room.
But you never can tell where Madelyn’s thoughts are from the direction of her eyes. As I paused at her side, she said in a low tone, “Will you kindly give me that card which dropped from Mr. Preston’s pocket?”
“What card?” I evaded.
“Don’t be foolish, Nora!”
There was nothing else to do. I extended it to her with a shrug, and watched her with a little catch as she sauntered behind an unused “drop,” and stood staring down at the cardboard.
Through the thin walls of the dressing-room I could hear the drone of voices—twice the tones of Ariel Burton, in a sharp, nagging key, and once the voice of the French maid, answering with a tired drag.
The door of the dressing-room opened. A white, lace-capped head appeared, two slender, black-sateen-waisted shoulders, a pair of tiny-heeled slippers, and, above them, a trim, ankle-length skirt, and a coquettish, lace-trimmed apron.
Miss Burton’s French maid swept a pair of large, blue-black eyes around our group, and tripped down the stairs to the double tier of women’s dressing-rooms below. She was gone perhaps two, certainly not over three, minutes. The door of the dressing-room remained closed. Evidently Miss Burton was finishing her change of costume with her own hands.
When the maid returned, the call-boy, with the “star’s” next cue, met her as she was re-entering the dressing-room. On the stage we could hear the swish of gliding pumps, above the muffled strains of a waltz-number, and could see the changing blue and violet rays of the spot-light, shadowing the whirling forms of the DeWeese sisters, acrobatic dancers.
The maid opened the dressing-room door, nodded to the call-boy, with a flash of her black eyes—a French girl would die of ennui if she couldn’t flirt!—and whisked her skirts from our gaze.
The dancers on the stage made their exit, panting. There was a lull. It was Miss Burton’s turn to make her next bow to the audience.
The door of the dressing-room opened again, and the maid swept a pair of puzzled eyes in our direction.
“Mademoiselle Burton has already gone on ze stage? Oui?”
“Certainly not!” Peterson snapped.
The girl’s bewilderment deepened.
“Tell her she must hurry!” the manager added.
“But, Messieur, where ees she? She ees not in ze dressin’-room!”
“Ridiculous!” Peterson brushed past the maid’s figure, and stepped into Miss Burton’s littered sanctum.
Even to a novice it was apparent that the stage was unusually quiet. The call-boy appeared again, dishevelled.
“Say, Mr. Clavering can’t make up lines all night! Where’s Miss Burton?”
Peterson’s head jerked out of the dressing-room. He raised a limp hand, and beckoned as though he could not speak.
Madelyn caught his arm. “What is wrong?”
Peterson found his voice, in a curious mumble. “She is—gone—gone!”
The manager’s knees sagged, and he gripped the wall.
“Say, Mr. Clavering can’t make up lines all night!” the call-boy repeated shrilly.
Madelyn pushed past Peterson, and her eyes swept the ten-foot-square room behind him—the bird’s-eye maple toilet-table, the chair before it, with the blood-red silk kimono tossed over its back, the huge trunk in the corner, the little writing desk and rocker, the long line of gowns across two sides.
There was no ceiling. The walls had been erected a height of perhaps ten feet above the stage, and an electric wire strung over them, with two hanging bulbs, one over the toilet table and another over the desk. A square Navajo rug covered the center of the floor. Despite the temporary nature of the apartment and the board walls, Miss Burton had succeeded in giving it several homelike touches.
There was but one door—that before us, through which we had seen the actress enter the room. Other form of exit was, of course, out of the question. An agile person, by standing on the trunk, might have scrambled over the walls, and dropped. But such a proceeding would have been in plain view of all of us.
Peterson drew a moist hand over his eyes, and gripped Madelyn Mack’s shoulders, still in a daze.
“She’s not here!”
“That is evident!” said Madelyn, impatiently.
“But we saw her come in!” Peterson was mouthing his words. “And she did not go out!”
“Quite so!” agreed Madelyn.
Peterson blinked violently, and made a gurgling sound in his throat as though he were choking.
Behind me, Sewell Collins and Thorny Preston were wedged into the doorway. The face of Collins was blanched an ash-grey, even to the little, pudgy bags under his eyes. Drops of perspiration were beading Thorny’s forehead.
Over their shoulders, the French maid was peering at us with terror-widened eyes. One of her hands had caught Collins’ arm, although neither appeared conscious of the fact.
Madelyn stepped toward the heavy trunk. It was not locked, and the cover swung easily back. I caught hold of one end of the upper tier of compartments, and we lifted it to the floor. Below was a mass of neatly folded gowns, dozens of them, it seemed to me, reaching clear to the top. We dumped them out rather ruthlessly—but there was nothing beneath.
We stared at one another, with the same unspoken thought. It was the only possible place of concealment the room afforded! Why, it was—uncanny! I caught myself glancing fearfully around us, as though I, too, would be caught up into thin air, and whisked into some strange realm of the Fourth Dimension, for instance! (Wherever and whatever that is!)
I turned my bewildered eyes above me. The huge flies of the theatre, far up under the roof, were swaying lazily, perhaps twenty-five feet away. Through the intervening space there was absolutely no connection with the thin-partitioned room below.
Madelyn seized the end of the rug, jerked it back, and scrutinized the planks beneath. Peterson, still in his uncertain daze, staggered to the trunk, and tugged it aside. But the floor showed no hint of opening from wall to wall. Not a board was disturbed.
“We saw her come in!” Peterson stuttered again. “And she did not go out!”
His eyes wavered toward each of us in turn, but saw nothing but a blankness as utter as his own. He tottered to the trunk, sank down on to it—a wilted rag of a man.
The call-boy shoved his head under Thorny’s arm with his staccato refrain. “I say, Mr. Clavering can’t be making up lines all night!”
“Shut up!” Thorny growled.
Madelyn turned. “Has Miss Burton an understudy?”
“Of course—that is, I suppose Miss Hunt—but surely you don’t mean——”
“You’d better get her—if you intend to finish the show!”
Thorny glanced at Peterson, but the manager was huddled back on the trunk, helpless.
He whirled to the call-boy.
“Tell ’em to ring down the curtain, and bring Miss Hunt to me!”
He hesitated, stared at the crumpled figure of the manager, shrugged again. “I suppose there is nothing else for it!” He stepped back reluctantly. “I’ll announce that Miss Burton is ill, that she cannot resume her role; that the play will continue with Miss Isabelle Hunt in her part!”
His shoulders stiffened (Thorny always could rise to an emergency); but he did not move. It was as though he, too, were held to the spot, like the rest of us, by the weird fascination of it all.
“For God’s sake, Miss Mack, what has happened?” Thorny’s voice was husky.
Madelyn was toying with a hair-brush on the toilet-table. Impulsively I stepped forward. The card that had come with Miss Burton’s bouquet had fallen to the floor. The six of us, grouped in the dressing-room, formed a perfect circle about the bit of pasteboard, with its curious, purple-edged thumb.
Suddenly I checked myself, drew back. As clearly as though Madelyn had given the spoken command that stopped my movement, I knew that she intended another hand than mine to recover the dropped card, knew that she had cast it in our midst with deliberate purpose.
Sewell Collins stirred, stooped mechanically.
“I believe this fell from your bag, Miss Mack.” The pudgy lines of his features were unchanged. His heavy-lidded eyes blinked rather listlessly.
“Thanks,” said Madelyn perfunctorily.
In the background, Thorny Preston’s face had gone chalk-white. His right hand flashed to a side pocket of his coat, apparently felt an empty lining, and dropped to his side.
Abruptly he turned to the door, pushed it open, and, without a word to us, strode out on to the stage.
A cry cut the silence, and ended in a choke. The French maid had fallen to her knees, gasping hysterically.
III
It was Peterson who first spied the golden butterfly.
Crouched on the edge of the trunk, his stare had probably swept the glittering ornament on the floor a dozen times before he mustered sufficient interest to slip down from his seat and close his fingers over it.
We saw him turn it over absently. Then he raised his head with a ragged, little laugh and tossed it on to the writing desk. I picked up the ornament idly in my turn—a cunningly fashioned little affair, perhaps an inch and a half in length, representing a butterfly with wings outstretched. It was surprisingly heavy, too, with the weight of solid gold, probably a trinket from one of those exclusive Fifth Avenue shops, which make even a millionaire arch his eyebrows.
But I could see no hint of its use. Certainly it was not intended for a brooch or a clasp, for there was no sign of a pin. I shrugged, balancing it nervously in my fingers.
There came a strained silence, broken only by the sobs of the maid. We were rather avoiding one another’s eyes, most of us gazing vacantly at the floor, a curious sense of unrest, vague, elusive, in the air. I drew my shoulders together. It was—cold! And then I realized it was the chill of fear—the fear of the unseen, the unknown. And I divined that it was stealing upon all of us.
And yet a hundred feet away, a thousand shoulders were laughter-shaking at the mirth of a painted stage!
Miss Burton’s understudy had probably risen to the emergency. In fact, Thorny Preston, appearing in the doorway, jerkily explained as much. I could see that his hands were clenched. Thorny’s voice trailed to a pause; he shifted his feet awkwardly. “The police—you think perhaps we ought to—why don’t some of you say something?”
Sewell Collins raised his heavy eyebrows. “Don’t you think you are—hasty? The police?” He shrugged.
“But the girl may be dying—murdered!”
“Do you charge then that Miss Burton’s disappearance is not due to natural causes?”
I realized that Thorny was flushing unjustifiably; or so it seemed to me.
The strained silence fell again. Thorny paced back and forth in front of the door, showing us occasional glimpses of his face, with his lips set in a tight line. Collins fumbled in his pocket, produced a gold cigarette case, and then, remembering himself, returned it with a sigh.
We could hear the orchestra in the midst of the liveliest number on the program. I wondered vaguely if Thorny’s explanation of Ariel Burton’s illness had been accepted, if rumors of the real situation had yet crept out. It was only a matter of minutes, of course, before the truth would be known—must be known.
Thorny thrust himself abruptly through the doorway. His eyes flashed around the room, and ended at Collins’ morose face.
“If one of you won’t call the police, I will!” His voice was sharp, challenging.
“You seem to take a great deal for granted, Mr. Preston!” Collins’ eyes narrowed almost angrily.
“Don’t beat about the bush, man! Say what you mean! You are afraid of the reporters, the publicity—you, whose town-painting exploits have given the newspapers copy for years!”
For a moment I thought Collins would strike him. Thorny laughed in his face.
“Oh, I know you are confoundedly cautious! But I haven’t any tenderloin record to cover up! I am going to put this matter in the hands of the law without any more nonsense! You can hike for Europe in the morning, if you are afraid of the red fire!”
Collins’ eyes were like burning coals under his heavy lids, and a zig-zagging vein over his forehead swelled into a purple ridge.
“Miss Burton is my promised wife!” His voice snapped. “And I rather fancy that I have more interest in this matter even than you—her rejected suitor!”
“You lie!”
Peterson’s bulk intervened before Thorny’s crooked arm just in time. “Gentlemen, you forget yourselves!”
Thorny gripped Peterson’s shoulder, pivoted him about, then lunged toward Collins’ fat throat. Madelyn glided between the two as easily as though she were offering the explosive Mr. Preston a cup of tea.
“If you would really serve Miss Burton,” she said quietly, “you are scarcely offering us a convincing demonstration!”
Thorny’s arm dropped limply, and he breathed sharply.
“I—I beg your pardon, Miss Mack!”
Odd, isn’t it, how swiftly the primitive passions can burst through the starched shirt-front of civilization—and yet how abruptly they can be checked!
Collins swept his handkerchief over his forehead.
“As I was about to say when I was interrupted, if the majority favor the police, so far from opposing the action, I will——”
Our eyes were riveted on him like a magnet. He paused, thrust the handkerchief back into his pocket.
“Pay twenty thousand dollars for the return of Miss Burton uninjured—or a similar amount for the conviction of any who have dared to offer her harm!”
It was splendidly done—no pompousness. (I am bound to say that much for him!) And he was in cold earnest. The deliberate inflection of his voice could not be denied. But—twenty thousand dollars! I glanced involuntarily toward Madelyn Mack. She had picked up the golden butterfly I had dropped, and was balancing it with the same abstraction with which she had toyed with the hair-brush.
Peterson shook himself, smoothed his toupee, and glanced toward the door. He was slowly returning to his old aggressiveness. Collins’ offer was at least something tangible—something more practical and earthly than spirit-abducted ladies!—And Peterson began and ended everything with the dollar mark!
“Shall I telephone headquarters?” The manager addressed the question directly to Madelyn.
“I presume you will have to—sooner or later,” she said indifferently.
Peterson weighed her words silently, let his eyes circle the room again, and strode through the doorway. I imagine that he was not at all reluctant to leave!
Sewell Collins turned heavily, and walked out on to the stage in his wake. The maid was still crouched in the corner, her eyes following us like those of a frightened fawn I had once seen quivering under the lash of its keeper.
Through the wings, a zig-zagging file of chorus-girls, their rouged cheeks glaring in the near-lights, trooped past the dressing-room, staring, whispering, neck-craning. Already, it was evident that fragments of the real situation had penetrated beyond our circle.
Thorny closed the door, pushed a chair toward me, scowled at an unlighted cigarette in his fingers, and then gave a whistle.
I followed the direction of his stare. On the back of the door was hanging the royal purple suit in which we had last seen Ariel Burton. Even her hat was reposing on a hook, with its feathers curling lazily down.
Thorny’s whistle lengthened. “Then she had changed her clothes before——”
Madelyn glanced up from the chair where she was sitting, with her back toward us, her head down.
She frowned. “Of course!”
The minutes dragged by. None of us spoke. Thorny chewed his cigarette without applying a match, tossed it away finally, and stepped out on to the stage. I would have wagered he was seeking a place to smoke!—Sometimes, I wish I were a man with a fat, brown cigar to bring back my runaway nerves, instead of a woman, with a flood of tears as her only relief when the willies are playing tag up and down her spine!
Peterson should have been back. Perhaps, however, he was awaiting the police. I looked at my watch, suddenly remembering my duties as a newspaper-woman. I was half-tempted to communicate with the office, and had even taken a step toward the door, when it opened to admit Peterson, flanked on either hand by a stiffly solemn plainclothes man. Just behind them peered the lean, hatchet-face of Lieutenant Byron, with his lank form attired in—I rubbed my eyes unbelievingly—yes, an evening suit! And it fitted him! His hands, folded behind his back, as though to escape comment, were encased in white gloves, and he was limping in a pair of tight patent leathers. And this was grizzled, old Byron, the slouchiest man of the Central Office! I gasped at the metamorphosis.
Byron grinned sheepishly as he caught my eye; but the next moment his professional calm had masked his face, and he was again the inscrutable police officer.
He nodded gravely to Madelyn Mack, and she at once held out her hand. Byron was one of the very few Central Office Detectives who had a place in her esteem!
“Shall we leave?” she asked briskly.
Peterson glanced awkwardly at Byron. “Certainly not!” the lieutenant said heartily. “That is—yourself. As for the others,” his eyes wandered toward myself and the maid, “we are cramped here—perhaps——”
“We will all wait outside!” Madelyn broke in. “I am quite through my own humble investigations here, thank you!”
The door closed behind us. The police were officially in possession of Ariel Burton’s dressing-room. My last glimpse of the apartment was of Lieutenant Byron’s lean face scowling at the beveled glass of the toilet table; but whether it was at the thought of the knotty problem before him, or at the reflection of his own unusually adorned person, I don’t know.
Thorny Preston had vanished, probably to some sequestered spot with his cigarette-case. Sewell Collins was leaning against the brick wall, obviously quite effectually occupied with his own thoughts.
Madelyn met a half-hearted attempt of mine to open a conversation with a cold silence. It was thus we stood when the incident of Gwendolyn Calvert occurred.
From a quartet of chorus-girls, emerging from the lower dressing-rooms, a little, dimpled, yellow-haired figure, in a pink, short-skirted frock, detached itself, and a pair of big, blue, innocent eyes stared at us.—How does the worldly-wise showgirl contrive to gaze out at the world with such child-like innocence?
“You are Miss Mack?”
The shy notes of the voice matched the shy wonder of the eyes.
Madelyn inclined her head.
“Miss Madelyn Mack, the detective?”
“What can I do for you?”
“I am Gwendolyn Calvert.” (I knew it! She was just the kind of a girl one would call Gwendolyn, or Genevieve, or Flossie!)
She glanced over her shoulder, hesitated, cleared her voice. “You don’t look like such a horrible person!”
“Don’t I?”
“I always imagined a woman-detective wore men’s collars, thick-soled shoes, and brushed her hair back straight in a little knot!”
The girl’s eyes were studying Madelyn intently. I saw now that she was neither so innocent nor so young as she appeared, in spite of her guileless eyes and the blondined ringlets dangling girlishly over her shoulder.
“I suppose when you tell things to a detective, it is a good deal like going to confessional—I mean that what you say is never told to anybody else—never?”
“That depends a good deal on its importance as evidence.”
“Does that mean you might have to go to a stuffy court-room, and talk to a judge in a black robe, and have the horrible prosecuting attorney scowl at you, and rake up the story of your life, and read it in the papers, with a fearful snap-shot of yourself, the next day?”
“Perhaps not quite so bad as all that.” Madelyn was smiling rather impatiently.
Gwendolyn Calvert glanced over her shoulder again, stepped closer to us until we could breathe the perfume on her bodice, and lowered her voice like a tattling child, telling secrets out of school.
“I understand that something awful has happened to Miss Burton, and—and—there is something I ought to tell you! You are sure you will protect me?”
“Yes, yes—of course!”
“Well, then, last night I heard a man threaten to kill her to-day!”
Madelyn glanced across the stage with an assumption of indifference.
“Indeed?”
“He was very much excited!” The girl raced on, evidently piqued at her failure to awaken more pronounced interest. “Told her, if she didn’t marry him to-day, he would put her out of the reach of any man!”
“And who was this interesting individual?”
“Thorny Preston!”
Madelyn’s eyes still remained fixed languidly on a distant piece of scenery.
“Why do you tell me this?”
“Because I thought Mr. Preston was one of my best friends—my best friend—and he had promised to marry me! There is no man living who can double-cross little Gwendolyn—and get away with it!”
I whirled so sharply that I knocked her elbow. I could feel myself growing almost livid. Another love-tangle of Mr. Thorndyke Preston! And I had fancied myself the only woman in the world for him! Blinded fool that I had been! I could see that Madelyn was watching me out of the corner of her eye, and I tried to walk away—but I couldn’t! I was rooted to the spot.
Gwendolyn Calvert stiffened her shoulders. “I don’t know if what I have told you is of any use to you; but, if Thorny Preston has brought harm to Ariel Burton, I shall never be content until he answers for it! She may have a temper like a wild-cat when she is crossed; but she was a friend to me when I would have hit the gutter if it hadn’t been for her!”
Her face was very hard and cold and set. Even her blondined ringlets seemed to tingle viciously.
But I scarcely heard her, or the detailed story that followed of Thorny’s melodramatic interview with Ariel Burton at the previous day’s dress-rehearsal.
I was longing for my hall-bedroom, and hard mattress, and a long, long cry in the dark—alone.
IV
From the scrap-book of Nora Noraker, reporter for The New York Bugle, under date of January 16, 1914, being a portion of her account of the astounding disappearance of Ariel Burton, star of “The Girl from Milwaukee” musical comedy company—and the only accurate newspaper chronicle of the event.
(The underscoring is my own—without apologies. No, I am not open to any reportorial offer at the present time, regardless of salary inducements, or short hours.—N. N.)
“Has the earth swallowed Ariel Burton, leading lady of ‘The Girl from Milwaukee’? Has she dissolved into thin air, or has some unknown supernatural force snatched her from human eyes?
“In the answer to those questions the police are confronting the most unique riddle of recent years, a riddle without parallel in criminal annals.
“With a packed audience awaiting her reappearance behind the footlights, Miss Burton closed the door of her dressing-room at the Metropolitan Theatre at nine forty-five o’clock last night to make her change of costume for the last half of the second act—and vanished as completely and suddenly as though the ground had closed over her. With the shutting of her door, she stepped from mortal view.
“A slight exception must be made to this statement—which tends, however, to deepen the mystery even further. For perhaps five minutes after her entrance to her room, Miss Burton’s French maid attended her at her toilet, leaving her mistress half-dressed, to carry a message to Miss Wordsworth, the ingenue of the company, in regard to a slight change which Miss Burton intended to make in the manner of her entrance on the stage.
“Miss Burton was in her usual spirits, and proceeding with the details of her make-up. The maid was the last person to see the actress.
“Not more than three minutes elapsed before the servant’s return, but in this period Ariel Burton disappeared as utterly as though she had—evaporated.
“From the moment of the maid’s departure until her return, at least five persons were constantly before the door of the dressing-room. They are prepared to swear that no one entered or left the room, and the single door was the only possible entrance to the apartment—a portable dressing-room built on the left end of the stage.
“Furthermore, they substantiate the statement of the servant that she left her mistress in normal spirits, from the fact that, while Miss Burton was dressing, the voices of both the actress and her maid were frequently heard over the sides of the room, which is not more than ten feet in height, and without a ceiling.
“No evidence of crime has been discovered, no sign of foul play, no suggestion of tragedy—in fact, not the slightest hint that would tend to unravel any phase of the amazing problem.
“The floors and walls of the room proved absolutely intact, when search was made. And exit over the ten foot sides was out of the question, without immediate discovery from persons on the stage.
“And yet, with these facts definitely established, it was just as evident that the apartment no longer contained the actress.
“Flight, either voluntary or involuntary, seems preposterous. The most amazing part of it all lies in the bewildering fact that it appears manifestly impossible that Miss Burton could have left the room—and yet the equal conviction that when search was made, she was gone.
“The actress had faded into ether—dissolved—ceased to exist.
“The case is in the hands of Madelyn Mack, who was on the stage at the time, and Lieutenant Byron of the Central Office. Neither professes to have obtained the slightest explanation of the astounding occurrence.
“Sewell Collins, retired secretary of the American Steel Company, and Miss Burton’s fiancé, has offered a reward of twenty thousand dollars for the return of the actress uninjured—or, in the event of foul play, a similar amount for the conviction of her assailants.
“It is the largest reward of its kind on record, and yet even its unusual amount has not resulted in the least progress in the untangling of the mystery.
“It has been learned that Miss Burton and Mr. Collins were to have been quietly married the latter part of next week, although she intended remaining on the stage the remainder of the season.
“Miss Isabelle Hunt, Miss Burton’s understudy, finished the performance last night, and, for the present, will retain the position of leading woman of the company.”
I read over my article in The Bugle in the Subway. Very cold and matter-of-fact, it looked in type, and utterly stripped of all the weirdness and uncanniness which had shrouded the event last night, and which had thrilled me when I sat down to the keys of my typewriter. Now, if Edgar Allan Poe had written The Bugle account, he would have built a masterpiece of shivers and quivers, and would have made the most wooden reader tingle with every thrill and near-thrill.
I realized abruptly that I was not a genius!
Indeed, as I surveyed my article, the whole thing seemed absurd and ridiculous, rather than tinged with the suggestion of the supernatural that had seemed so vivid.
It sounded like the plot of a French detective story. Why—such things couldn’t be in real life! It was well enough for a magician’s illusion of the Vanishing Lady, or a trick for a spiritualistic séance, with false doors, and swinging mirrors, and subdued lights, and all that sort of thing. But we were not dealing either with magicians or spiritualists!
The next thing they would suggest would be that Ariel Burton’s fairy godmother had given her an invisible cloak!
I could fancy that the whole town was snickering in its sleeve at us, and wondering whether we were confederates in some daring advertising hoax—or just plain dupes!
All of the papers, of course, mentioned, more or less sensationally, the incident of Ariel Burton’s faint at the close of the first act. Most of them assigned the rather vague reason of over-strain from the tension of a “first night.” None of them appeared to glimpse a deeper cause. In fact, with the climax that followed, the episode as a whole was dismissed rather lightly.
The card of the purple thumb had obviously not yet been uncovered by the newspaper probe. And it had not needed Madelyn’s suggestion to keep my own report silent on the subject. (It had not been the first time in our curious comradeship that I had seen a “scoop” smothered from motives of expediency!)
The first editions of the evening papers had nothing to add to the early morning accounts, unless it was the shrieking announcement of The Buzzer that its reporter, who had called on Sewell Collins for an interview, had been seized by the collar by that much-harried gentleman, and propelled by the toe of his house-slipper to the stairs of his apartment—and that the reporter was at once filing claims for fifty thousand dollars damages to his person and spirit!
I wondered curiously how the other members of the little stage-group at the Metropolitan, who had been enmeshed in the puzzle, were viewing it over the bridge of a night’s sleep; what effect the dissecting rays of the morning after had had in dissipating the sharp-tensioned atmosphere of the evening.
I was in a wretched mood. I had not reached home from the office until after two o’clock,—only newspaper, theatrical, and society women can keep such hours!—and I had gathered only four hours of distorted sleep, in spite of the bromide the bell-boy had brought me from the all-night drug store.
To be quite truthful, I couldn’t escape Thorny’s face, staring at me from out of the darkness, with hateful, little blondined hussies scampering all about, and the enticing, black eyes of Ariel Burton bending over it!
I had spent most of the night with the wreck of my dreams. I had never realized before how precious they were, nor how much of myself had been crying out for them to come true!
If he had only given me some hint—instead of deliberately cementing our relations!
Why, only last Sunday we had stolen away, just we two, and had trudged five miles through the Westchester snows to the “Maison Blanc”—the quaint, little French inn, which we had always called our own discovery—and found its doors bolted, and its chimneys cold, and Madame gone, and had to stumble back to the traction without our dinner, and the memory of the fried chicken and Muscatelle we used to get aggravating our hunger. But we had laughed at it all, and Thorny had built a snow-man on the roadside and put a cigar in its mouth, and we had snow-balled each other like a couple of sky-larking kids, and he had promised me the best meal in town when we got back—and now… this!
Once I even climbed out of bed, and snatched Thorny’s picture from the dresser, and held a match to it; but I only let the match burn my fingers! I hadn’t the courage to do anything else—and then it was the only picture I had!
When I left the car at the suburban station, with a half a mile walk between me and “The Rosary,” I was in a far from amiable mood. And the hour and a half ride in the Subway and Elevated had not improved it.
But the snap of the winter air could not be resisted. It was as tingling as champagne.—I sometimes think that a winter wind, chilled like wine to just the right temperature, is filled with celestial nectar for the benefit of just such harassed individuals as I was!
A lifeless sun was trying half-heartedly to combat the January blasts, which shrilled in from the cold, grey ice-mirror of the river. The naked line of maples flapped their leafless arms dismally at the edge of the long yard, which terraced gently back to the Swiss chalet, which Madelyn Mack termed “The Rosary.”
Its gables looked drear enough against the slate sky. The ivy masses, clinging clear to the roof, were a rusty yellow. It could not have appeared more bleak had it been set down in the hollow of the Alps, where Madelyn had found the design from which she had copied it.
I pictured the rose garden in its rear: a windswept square of shapeless bushes—with no hint of the gay masses of June bloom that were one of Madelyn’s chief delights.
It was all very sweet, and gladsome, and enchanting enough against a summery background, but in the winter—ugh! But then Madelyn possessed the eccentricities of genius—and one of these, I presume, was in remaining by the skeletons of her summer glories.
The Quaker-like figure of Susan Bolton, Madelyn Mack’s only companion, opened the door almost at once.
At my first glance behind the oaken portals, I forgot the bleakness outside. From the merrily bobbing streamers of Susan’s cap to the merrily dancing flames in the open hall fireplace there was a sense of welcome so penetrating that I stood stock-still, breathing it in. The very warmth of it quickened my chilled blood. I was content just to stand there, smiling foolishly—and feel the spirit of the place go dancing up and down and into every crevice of my being.
Desolate? Why, the ice and the wind and the snow were just what was needed to form the setting for the picture, and make one appreciate it!
Susan Bolton pulled me, with a little, motherly tug, toward a wide, high-backed seat, heaped with the softest, cosiest cushions imaginable—and just near enough the fire to allow you to put your feet out comfortably before the crackling logs.
She was not content until she had divested me with her own hands of coat, and hat, and furs. Then, stepping back to a bubbling alcohol heater, she inverted its squat, little brass kettle, and poured me a huge cup of chocolate, so rich, and creamy, and mouth-watering that it made me gasp.
“Three lumps of sugar?” she smiled. “You see, I have a good memory, Miss Noraker!”
I glanced up from my cup—one of the hundred-and-fifty-year-old set of Delft that Madelyn Mack had brought from Amsterdam—and let my eyes rest again on Susan’s beaming face.
It was one of those old-fashioned, grandmotherly faces, all smiles from the little, precise grey ringlets, peeping from under the frill of her cap, to the sunshiny eyes, looking as if they were wells of mother-love, deep enough to cover the whole world.
I put down my cup suddenly, sprang to my feet, and, throwing my arms around her neck, kissed her full on her astonished, cherry-red lips.
“I just couldn’t help it!” I said, stepping back. “Ah—that was good! I have been heart-hungry for months, and I didn’t know what for!”
She studied my face for a moment silently. Those kindly grey eyes seemed suddenly very shrewd. She laid one of her soft, white hands on my shoulder. It was like velvet.
“Nora, girl, what is it?”
My first emotion was overwhelming surprise. I stood blinking, and choking, and thinking very fast—and then, well, I found my head pillowed on her shoulder, and sobbing as I had not sobbed for years.
I guess that my feverish night had worn my nerves more than I appreciated. Anyway, I realized that I was gasping out the whole wretched story of Thorny to her; that a pair of wonderful, grey eyes were holding mine like magnets; that a cool, soft hand was caressing my cheek—and that Nora Noraker, veteran newspaper woman of twenty-eight, was pouring out her heart like a love-sick girl of sixteen!
I should have been ashamed, I suppose; but I wasn’t—a bit. And then my story came to an end, and the hand on my cheek slipped down on my shoulder, and for a long moment we stood silent.
Susan gently turned me about, picked up my cup, and watched me until I drained it all.
“You feel better, don’t you?”
I nodded, smiling in spite of myself.
A door at the end of the hall opened softly, and a small lithe figure, all in white, from her white buckskin shoes to her tailored, white serge skirt, and white India-silk blouse, stepped toward us, with a shaggy, brown Scotch collie at her heels, as under-sized as its mistress.
“This is the third time I have looked in on you two!” she said gaily. “Have you been to confessional, Nora?”
“Yes—to my mother-confessor,” I smiled.
“And she has given you absolution? I knew she would. That is why I left you alone!”
Madelyn reached over and caressed Susan Bolton’s wrinkled face, and then stooped down and patted the head of Peter the Great, the Collie.
She straightened, her mood abruptly hardening.
“I want your brain clear, Nora! I need you!” She turned. “Will you come into the den?”
Madelyn’s arm slipped through mine. I glanced at her face, which scarcely reached to my shoulder, and realized that it was very tired, and worn, and that—yes, the abnormal sparkle in her eyes was too obvious!
My gaze dropped to the amethyst locket, dangling from a slender gold chain about her neck—her only ornament.
“You’ve been taking those horrid cola-berries again!” I charged.
“Don’t be absurd, Nora! I needed them! I haven’t been to bed for twenty-four hours!”
“You’ll go to bed for good one of these days, if you keep up on stimulants like that!”
She shrugged wearily.
“Do you happen to know whether Ariel Burton was left-handed?”
“I wish you had never made that trip to South America,” I said crossly, determined not to change the subject. “Then perhaps you would never have heard of the cola stimulant!”
Madelyn sighed.
“But was she?” she persisted in her turn.
“I don’t know. Why?”
Madelyn curled down on the huge jaguar-skin before the den fireplace.—I think she had an open fire in nearly every room in the chalet.
Her arms circled about her knees, and she sat staring into the red and yellow flames, without reply.
My eyes roamed around the long, high-ceilinged room. Its floor and walls littered with a collection of bric-a-brac to which the four corners of the earth had contributed, for, during her long vacations, Madelyn Mack gave full play to her wanderlust, and had zig-zagged around the world a half a dozen times, always as far from the beaten paths of travel as she could penetrate. One year I had heard from her from the interior of China—it had taken three months for her dozen lines to reach me—and the next summer she had written me from the northern coast of Labrador.
But there was the touch of a woman’s hand in the disorderly order of the room, in spite of the grim suggestiveness of certain of its prominent ornaments—the revolver with which the notorious Rudolph Morton had so nearly ended her life in underground Chinatown—the Indian bow-string, which had choked to death Peter Foxham—the stuffed cobra, whose fangs had come within an inch of Madelyn’s arm in the Punjaub hills.
Nor was suggestion of our present problem lacking. On Madelyn’s desk were the two anonymously threatening letters that had come to Ariel Burton, each with the purple-edged outlines of a human thumb below its typewritten lines. I started somewhat as I saw that the ornament of the golden butterfly, that we had found in the dressing-room, was being used as a paper-weight for them.
Although I had read the communications when Peterson entrusted them to Madelyn the night before, I picked them up again. To a newspaper reporter, accustomed to melodramatic demands of the Black Hand as commonplaces, often not worth even a first-page position, there was nothing particularly startling in either their text or their menace. Perhaps their most curious features were that they had evidently come from a writer of a fair degree of education—and that they made no mention of money.
I quote the first letter of a dozen lines verbatim:
“You should know that I am not given to idle boasting. You have driven me to this method of approach, and I warn you in all fairness that, if you compel me, I will not hesitate at desperate measures. I am willing to give you a reasonable time for consideration, but I am prepared to strike at a moment’s notice. On the whole, I do not think you will force me to a step which will mean final disaster to you.”
The second communication was written from the same angle as the first, except for its concluding paragraph:
“The first performance of your new play is scheduled for Wednesday night. Unless you assure me of a favorable answer, you will never finish it alive.”
A favorable answer to what? I scanned the two letters in vain for some hint of light. There was no inkling of their purpose or why they were written. And there was neither signature nor address!
But for the curiously sketched outline of the human thumb, there were no marks of pen or pencil on either page. Both letters had been written by a black-ribboned typewriter. The envelopes bore the New York postmark of Madison Square Station, with dates a week apart.
When I turned, Madelyn had stepped to the telephone.
“Hello!” she called. “Is this the Lenox? Will you kindly connect me with Miss Ariel Burton’s apartment? I know she’s not there! Yes, her maid or her housekeeper will do.”
She tapped the ’phone impatiently.
“Hello,” she repeated. “Is this Miss Burton’s housekeeper? This is Miss Mack—yes. Miss Madelyn Mack. I wish to ask you two questions. Was Miss Burton left-handed... She was not! One thing more. Did she smoke cigarettes?”
Madelyn caught her breath suddenly.
“You are quite sure she did not? Thank you.” She hung up the receiver, frowning.
I stared across at her.
“Are you going to explain?”
“Explain what?”
“Those absurd questions, of course!”
“Maybe, you are right, Nora.” Madelyn shrugged. “Perhaps they were absurd!”
I walked across the room, and then veered my queries to another angle.
“Well, how was it done?”
“How was what done?”
“How was Ariel Burton spirited from her dressing-room?” I snapped.
“My dear girl, there are three ways in which it could have been accomplished!” She stirred the logs in the fireplace.
“Three!” I gasped.
“But I am not going to explain until I know which of the three was used!”
I sighed resignedly. “What have you been doing all night?” I demanded.
She jerked her head toward the Circassian-walnut phonograph at her shoulder.
“Spending most of the time with half a dozen new records that Bartolli, the violinist, has just made for me. It took him about three hours, but he charged me six hundred dollars!”
“What would you do if you didn’t have all the money you could spend?” I asked cynically.
“Make more!” she responded promptly. She turned. “There is a stack of morning papers on the floor, Nora. Would you mind reading me their accounts of the case? The only article I have read is your own. If you would tone down your adjectives, you might write something worth while some day!”
I picked up the heap of folded papers submissively.
“Of course, you don’t mean every word?” I laughed. “The papers have devoted as much space to the affair as to a presidential message!”
Madelyn stretched herself on the jaguar-skin, her hands under her head, her eyes staring at the ceiling.
“Yes, Nora—every line, if you don’t mind! I fancy I have about an hour to spare!”
She closed her eyes, and I began my task with a wry face. I had always humored her through the five years of our curious friendship.
If Madelyn found any interest, however, either in the newspaper speculations or their heavy-leaded details of what was variously termed “The Riddle of the Vanishing Lady,” “The Dressing-Room Mystery,” and “The Burton Enigma,” she did not show it; but I found that behind her closed eyes an alert brain was following me.
“Will you read that last paragraph again?” she said suddenly.
My eyes returned to the bottom of the page of The Herald. It was only a paragraph of a dozen lines, shoved into an inconspicuous spot as a “filler.”
“Of the history of Miss Ariel Burton, previous to her theatrical career, little or nothing is known.
“It was a year and a half ago that Peter P. Peterson introduced her to Broadway in a minor role in Thorndyke Preston’s first production, ‘X. Y. Z.’ A series of sudden and severe illnesses of several of the female members of the company elevated her in an unusually rapid manner—and her pronounced ability retained the successive steps which she had acquired by accident.
“When Mr. Preston’s second play, ‘Mademoiselle Satan,’ was produced six months ago, she was selected as its star, and later transferred to the stellar role in ‘The Girl from Milwaukee.’
“Mr. Peterson knows absolutely nothing of her life previous to the morning when, after three days of waiting in his anteroom, she obtained admittance to his office in search of a position. Who her relatives are, where her home was before the New York chapter of her life, are questions which no one seems able to answer. That she has demonstrated a wonderful stage ability, however amounting at times to almost genius, there can be no doubt.
“Miss Burton lived alone with her French maid and housekeeper in an expensive six-room suite on Riverside Drive. The flat was rented in her stage name, and her personal mail directed to that address. Whether in private life she has ever borne any other name is not known.”
“Will you cut out that paragraph for me, Nora?” asked Madelyn. “You are not too tired to go on, are you?”
“Oh, no—it is a pleasure!” I said sarcastically, extending my hand toward the remainder of the papers.
But it did not reach them.
A bell tinkled through the house, faintly, as though the hand on the button were not sure of itself.
We heard Susan’s steps pattering toward the door in her loose slippers, and return with a second step beside her—light and shy.
The door of the den opened. The dark, liquid eyes of Miss Burton’s French maid, Jacqueline, stared at us hesitatingly.
V
Madelyn was the first to speak.
“Come in,” she invited as pleasantly as though she were occupying the most decorous position, instead of lying flat on her back on a tawny leopard skin in an attitude strongly suggestive of Cleopatra reposing on the trophies of her royal huntsmen.
Jacqueline’s stare widened. I could quite understand her amazement, even after her association with such an unconventional person as a Broadway musical comedy star! Madelyn drew herself up leisurely and patted her hair, perhaps to give her caller opportunity to recover her poise, perhaps to ponder the reason of her unexpected visit.—Or was it unexpected? Madelyn’s next words left me staring in my turn.
“I thought you would be here by three at the latest!” she said quietly.
Jacqueline caught her breath, and I could see her fingers knot about the arms of her chair.
“But I have not received any more Purple Thumb communications,” Madelyn continued.
The maid’s gaze was riveted on the suddenly grave face of Miss Mack. Madelyn leaned forward.
“Don’t you think you will save time if you take me into your confidence concerning what you know about Miss Burton,—that is, the things which you have not told the police?”
“What do you mean?”
“Simply that I can be of service—now! If you choose to wait, it will probably be too late.”
Jacqueline swept her hand over her eyes.
“Suppose you begin,” suggested Madelyn briskly, “by telling me the meaning of the Purple Thumb!”
With a moan Jacqueline slipped from her chair to her knees.
“Merci, Madame, Merci! You mistake! It ees not that! It ees ze locked room I came to you about, her room!”
Madelyn almost roughly gripped her shoulder.
“If you are going to have hysterics, we will defer this interview until later.”
Jacqueline caught a handkerchief from her sleeve, penetrating with some heavy French scent, brushed it over her face, and somewhat sullenly resumed her seat. Her shoulders were shivering as if with cold.
“That is better,” said Madelyn approvingly. “And now, if you will talk calmly, we shall help one another much sooner.”
Jacqueline huddled back in her chair, evidently trying to collect her thoughts. In spite of her agitation, perhaps because of it, she made a striking picture in black and white, her pale features standing out hauntingly against the background of her somber gown and hair. And yet there was a curious underlying suggestion of piquancy, too, as though her French effervescence could not be entirely eliminated.—I verily believe that even in the tension of the situation, the minx never forgot that she looked well in black!
She looked up suddenly.
“It ees ze nerves, Madame! You—you must pardon. It has been one terrible nightmare—with ze door of Mademoiselle’s room, ze locked door staring, staring at me all through ze night, and morning. I thought I would go mad! I won’t go back! I can’t go back!”
“And what has the door to do with it all?” demanded Madelyn curtly.
“Do you not know? I mean ze door of Mademoiselle’s bedroom, ze rose-chamber, which no one enters but herself, no, not even I! Always, it ees locked when she is gone, with ze little key, and again when she retires. Ever it has been so since my first day.”
“And it is locked now?”
“Merci, Madame, and why not? Did, I not see ze key turned with my own eyes, when Mademoiselle left for ze play? But, as I watched last night, ze door seemed to speak, to call to me, to command that I should find ze little key! Always it was calling! It was as though ze Evil One, himself, was ordering that I should obey!”
“Of course you did so?” Madelyn shrugged.
“Ze good saints protect us!” gasped the maid. “Open ze rose-chamber?” Her hand sketched the sign of the cross. “That ees what I came for you to do! They say there ees no woman so wise as Madame, none so brave!”
“You are alone in Miss Burton’s apartments?” asked Madelyn abruptly.
“Alone but for Martha, ze housekeeper. But Martha, she ees made of wood. She knows nothing, feels nothing!”
“She was with you last night?”
“Part of it. She had asked Mademoiselle to go to Brooklyn to see her brother who ees ill, and she did not return until late. But Martha is old and wrinkled, and twelve of the night is as twelve of the noon to her! Once ze police came and asked ze impossible questions, and again this morning with more questions. But they are not like our gendarmes of ze boulevards! No, Madame. Redfaced and stupid they are——”
I think I saw the yellow face at the window at the same instant as Jacqueline. It was pressed against the frost-dimmed panes like a ghastly blur. Only for a flash it showed, a flash of black, boring eyes and scowling lips, and then it was gone, like a face swallowed in the fog. Madelyn’s lithe figure leaped past my shoulders, and then, as she flung up the window and we peered into the yard, we were conscious of two facts.
Behind us, Jacqueline had crumpled to the floor as though felled by a physical blow. Ahead of us, across the snow-sheeted yard, a man was darting like a frightened rabbit, a slightly built man, rather under the average height, with a black felt hat crushed low over his face, and the skirts of a brown overcoat flapping about his legs. Even as we sighted him, he crashed through the winter skeleton of Madelyn’s fat English hedge, and disappeared.
Madelyn sprang back from the window, her eyes gleaming.
“Quick, Nora! This is a time when minutes count!”
“You are going to follow him?”
“Don’t be absurd! We have a more important call to answer! Tell Susan to attend to Miss Jacqueline. I dare say she has only fainted. And have Andrew bring my car to the door. We’ll have to chance the roads. It is the quickest way we can get to town!”
On occasions, Madelyn can muster an executive ability that seems to galvanize those about her like an electric battery. Even calmly moving Susan Bolton, and her slow-thinking husband, Andrew, respond to its thrill. In something under five minutes Madelyn’s car was waiting, and we were springing into it. In the den, Susan’s ministrations were already bringing Jacqueline back to returning consciousness. But we did not await the final result.
“I will telephone you within the hour—an hour and a half at the latest,” called Madelyn from the door. “In the meantime, I shall depend on you to keep the young woman under your eye.”
“But, if she wants to leave?” protested Susan.
“Tell her she does so at her peril! And now, Andrew, get us to Riverside Drive in thirty minutes if you have to smash the car!”
“Riverside Drive!” I echoed. And then I knew. “We are going to Ariel Burton’s apartments?” I cried.
“We are going to the rose-chamber and its locked door,” said Madelyn as she settled herself in her seat. And that was the last word she spoke during our thirty-five minutes of zig-zagging through the crunching snow, bumping over ice-crusted ruts, and grazing crumbling ditches. Twice we skirted disaster so close that my breath stopped, but Madelyn sat buried in her robes without the slightest sign that she had noticed the fact. It was not until the straggling outskirts of the city grew into close-packed blocks that she roused, and then it was only to give the direction to Andrew. We swerved our course across to the Drive, and brought up finally before the brown stone front of the Lenox apartment building, in one of whose five-thousand-dollar suites Miss Ariel Burton made her home.
Madelyn was out of the dazzlingly upholstered elevator almost before the liveried attendant opened the door at the third floor. Miss Burton’s apartment was a front corner suite, obviously one of the most expensive and desirable in the building. Madelyn’s finger came away impatiently from the entrance bell. She was about to repeat her summons, when the door opened, and a rather grim-visaged woman of perhaps sixty stood staring at us.
Madelyn thrust out one of her cards and elbowed unceremoniously past her.
“You are Martha, I take it! Which is Miss Burton’s bedroom?”
It was a tribute to the personality of Miss Mack that no sign of protest answered her. The housekeeper fell back.
“The last room to the right!” she gasped.
A long hall extended from the front to the rear of the suite with a series of three rooms on either side. Not only the hand of wealth, but of art, was apparent even in our first swift survey. If Ariel Burton’s judgment had dictated the furnishings of her home, she was quite apparently a connoisseur.
Through a blue-and-gold music-room, and a white-and-gold library and living-room combined, we made our way. In the farther wall was a door, almost concealed by overhanging tapestries. Madelyn paused, and, with a tightening of her lips, stepped forward.
“Will it have to be broken in?” I asked, startled at the hoarseness of my voice.
“Unless the lock is a patent one, I fancy I can manage.”
Madelyn stooped, and caught the knob. I could hear her breath quicken as she fumbled with the handle and then bent toward the keyhole. She straightened again, and from her hand-bag produced an oddly curved bit of wire. For two or three minutes she twisted it to and fro in the lock. With a sigh of surrender she stepped back.
There was silence as she gazed at the panels reflectively.
“I’m afraid, Nora, we will have to use force after all!” She whirled toward the housekeeper. “Get the janitor and tell him to come up at once, and bring a man with him!”
The servant stumbled toward the hall. Madelyn picked up a book on the library table and toyed with it mechanically. We were rather evading one another’s eyes. The suggestion of impending evil, of strange, hidden things, had fallen on the room like a blanket. I moved my gaze from the locked door, only to find it drawn back again like a magnet. In the back of my mind I saw again the picture of the hysterical French maid, heard again her gasping voice:
“But as I watched, ze door seemed to speak, to call to me, to command that I should find ze little key! Always it was calling! It was as though the Evil One, himself, was ordering that I should obey!”
From the hall came the tramping of feet, a heavy voice. But it was not the janitor and his assistant. In the doorway Lieutenant Byron and a plain-clothes man stood gazing at us inquiringly.
Madelyn stepped forward with a quick shrug of relief, and spoke a dozen crisp sentences. The lieutenant’s grey eyebrows wrinkled, but he was not a man to waste questions—when the need for action was calling. With a nod to his subordinate, he swung across the floor. The two men braced themselves and then lunged together. Door-breaking is an essential part of a policeman’s education!
The second onslaught was successful. The wrecked panels fell suddenly inward.
A glimpse of rose-red tinted walls, and velvet rugs, and mahogany dressing table swam before me—a silken canopied bed and Irish lace counterpane—a wonderful embroidered negligee tossed carelessly across the surface—and nothing else.
VI
This was our first swift impression like the flash of a stereopticon slide on a blank canvas.
And then Madelyn’s slight, black-gowned figure was darting across the room. The pink-shaded silken draperies, concealing the opposite door, were still swaying from the impact of the fleeing figure that had dashed through them almost at the moment of our entrance.
Madelyn tore aside the draperies, caught the knob. The routed occupant of the rose-chamber had turned the key!
Lieutenant Byron brushed her aside, hurled himself against the panels. The plain-clothes man joined him in the second assault. In the din of the wreckage, we sprang over the falling door into a rear corridor, ending in a winding flight of back stairs, obviously for the servants’ use.
As we rushed to the stairs, a girlish, blue-skirted figure, with a loosened coil of blond hair, under a white fur toque, whisked from the landing below. When we reached the second floor corridor it was empty.
Six locked doors confronted us—and the last flight of the stairs. A glance was sufficient to eliminate this latter exit. The girl in blue had found haven behind one of the series of doors. Lieutenant Byron’s knuckles beat an angry summons on each in turn. An icy-faced butler, and a maid-servant, holding a curling-iron to her scanty bangs, replied to two of the calls with a wonderment too obvious to be counterfeited. Silence answered at the remaining four panels. A continuation of our strenuous tactics above was, of course, out of the question. For the time, at least, we were balked.
Lieutenant Byron’s curt order to his assistant to watch the lower entrance, and to telephone headquarters for a second man at the other side of the building, was more of a formality than a hope. The Lenox probably contained a dozen blonde women of girlish figures.
We made a gloomy quartette as we re-traced the path of our precipitate chase. I think Lieutenant Byron took the escape of our quarry as a personal affront. There was a suggestion of grimness even in the measured tread of his steps as we came again to the splintered door, and to the gaping figure of the housekeeper, still staring as though she had not changed a muscle since she had seen us disappear.
I caught Madelyn’s arm as the lieutenant tugged at the door. She smiled quizzically at the question in my eyes, with a finger to her lips. I had not been alone, then, in my recognition of Miss Gwendolyn Calvert as she plunged down the back stairs!
I shrugged helplessly, as Lieutenant Byron leaned the wrecked door against the wall. What had brought our garrulous, chorus-girl friend to the chamber of Ariel Burton? What motive had inspired her wild flight before our approach? I was floundering in a mental quagmire. Most emphatically our riddle was deepening rather than clearing.
The lieutenant brought the matter-of-fact element back to the situation with a movement typical of the unemotional police-angle of view. Striding across the room, he jerked up the half-lowered window shades to their full height.
Madelyn had paused by the side of the bed, her gaze slowly digesting the details of the chamber. Now, with the flood of light, we could see that its luxury was not so heavy nor so glaring as to smother its suggestion of cosy cheeriness. It was just such a nook as I had occasionally allowed myself to dream of in my fanciful moments.
It was with something like a start that I found my thoughts circling back to the cloud of presentiment that had shadowed us as the police shoulders forced an entrance for us. Soberly I tried to diagnose its cause. And then, quite suddenly, it came to me that none of us would have been surprised if the room had shown us the trail of tragedy—if the chamber had revealed the murdered body of Ariel Burton!
The curt interrogations of Lieutenant Byron interrupted my thoughts.
“The back hall, then, was the only means by which an intruder could have entered Miss Burton’s room?” he snapped at the housekeeper.
“Yes, sir!” she returned dully. “I have been here since last night, that is, in the other part of the flat. I never had a key to Miss Burton’s own chamber. I—I hope you don’t think, sir, that I——”
The lieutenant bent over the lock of the rear door. Even from a distance, I could see that it was of the same peculiar pattern as the first lock which had balked Madelyn—a peculiar design which few experts could have forced. And there were no signs that it had been forced!
There came a lull as we slowly filed back to Miss Burton’s white-and-gold living-room. In one corner bulked a heavy, square theatrical trunk, plastered with criss-crossing labels, jarringly conspicuous against the luxurious background.
“Miss Burton’s trunk, the one she sent from the theatre last night,” explained the housekeeper, in answer to Madelyn’s inquiring glance.
I stared as I recalled the two men staggering from the dressing-room with their burden shortly before the star had made her appearance for the second act.
“Oh, we have examined it thoroughly. Miss Mack!” said the lieutenant with a flash, as Madelyn tapped its edge. “If you are trying to connect it with the case, though,” he added with a laugh, “I am afraid you have struck a blind lead! Your own evidence shows that Miss Burton was in the theatre long after the trunk had left!”
Madelyn smiled faintly. “And you will find my evidence quite correct! Our vanished friend was not hidden in the trunk, I assure you!” There was a hint of suppressed raillery in her voice.
“You examined it anyway, notwithstanding my testimony?”
“That was one of the first things I did when I reached the flat last night. It was filled with gowns enough to stock a store. There wasn’t a quarter inch of space left! Lord, Miss Mack, that woman certainly does have clothes! If Mrs. Byron ever sighted the contents of that trunk, I couldn’t get her away with a yoke of oxen. If you want to take a look yourself——”
“No, thank you.” With an air of detachment, Madelyn turned to a telephone in the opposite corner.
A book-strewn stand was drawn up before a grate of gas-logs at the side of one of those fat, old-fashioned arm-chairs, which seem a constant invitation to procrastination. It was my own particular Nemesis which led me at this juncture to the stand, and a magazine turned down in the center. An illustrated article on “Successful American Playwrights” rewarded my curiosity. From the very first page the face of Thorny Preston grinned up at me. It was the same picture he had given me, the snap-shot made during an October afternoon gallop the autumn before. Underneath was the staring caption:
“This picture was taken by Miss Ariel Burton, the leading lady, who has scored such a pronounced success in Mr. Preston’s productions.”
I flung the magazine savagely back, conscious that Lieutenant Byron was staring at me. I could understand now why Mr. Preston had called it his favorite picture! Doubtless there was a presentation copy in the most intimate corner of his own room, more than likely with some such inscription as, “Lovingly Yours, Ariel”!
A gradual deepening in the tension of the room made itself felt even through my bitterness. Madelyn was still at the telephone. She was seesawing the hook of the receiver savagely.
“There must be a mistake, Central! You are sure you have the number right? And there is no answer?”
Madelyn whirled from the instrument.
“Ring the elevator, Nora! Quick! If we are too late——” She broke off, her nails cutting into her palms, and then burst out again, “If they have dared to injure so much as a hair of her head, I call you all to witness that I shall make them pay—pay dearly! Oh, I have been blind, blind!”
Lieutenant Byron gripped her arm.
“Calm yourself, Miss Mack! What is it?”
Madelyn darted after me.
“It means,” she flung back, “that I have fallen for the first simple bait dangled before my eyes! And I call myself a detective!”
One glance at Madelyn’s face sent Andrew jumping toward the crank-shaft. Madelyn sprang into the car, and then leaped to her feet again.
“Are your fingers made of wood, man? Susan—Susan, your wife, is in peril!”
Andrew fell back, choking.
“God, Miss Mack! What—what is it?”
“I don’t know! That’s the worst!”
A sullen chugging broke from the engine. Andrew jumped to the wheel, the car swerved sharply, and we were dashing down the frozen pavement of the Drive.
I clutched Madelyn’s shoulders as we grazed a taxicab and passed it, with the driver cursing after us.
“Is it the yellow-faced man we saw at the window?”
Madelyn glared.
“Nora, I believe you have been as blind as I was! Can’t you see yet the game Jacqueline was playing? Haven’t your eyes been opened to the wild-goose chase she gave us—and its purpose?”
“No,” I said glumly, “they haven’t!”
“Then,” retorted Madelyn, with a touch of grimness, “your eye-opening will have to wait!”
And she dropped the conversation. Occasionally I stole a glance at her slight, drawn-faced figure; but there was no further hint of confidences—or apprehensions. There are times when Madelyn’s silence is glacial!
I huddled back in the robes and closed my eyes in an effort to concentrate on the kaleidoscope of the past three hours. And then I opened them in the hope that the sun would dispel something of my mental daze. Jacqueline’s visit—her terror-stricken story—the yellow face at the window—our dash to the Lenox—the assault on the locked door—the intruder in the rose-chamber—our unsuccessful pursuit—and now this last climax! And apparently we were drifting farther and farther from the heart of the riddle!
With a reckless disregard of skidding, Andrew whirled the car into the snow-crusted driveway of “The Rosary.” We made a dishevelled trio as we plunged into the long front hall, already darkened by the late afternoon shadows. A dying log in the grate fell apart with a crackle of sparks—and then, in the circle of its momentary radiance, we saw that which told us our wild ride had not been for nothing.
Madelyn had Susan’s head in her lap before Andrew and I could cross the room. From the position of her body, it was evident that the housekeeper had slipped down from a rocker, drawn into the glow of the fire. A stocking, wrapped about an old-fashioned darning-gourd, lay on the floor at her side. Around her hung the odor of chloroform.
Madelyn’s curt order for water was not necessary. The bluish lips were already twitching, as Andrew’s match caught the hall gas.
With a sigh of relief, Madelyn thrust a cushion under Susan’s head, motioned Andrew to remain at her side, and darted into the den. In the doorway we stumbled over the second evidence of the drug-trail. Peter the Great lay stiffly on his side, breathing with a heaviness which it was apparent that nothing for the present could break.
In the room, beyond, the purpose of the chloroform assailant was obvious. An impatient hand had torn open drawers, and file cases, strewn the floor with papers, and even jerked pictures from the walls and books from their shelves. A desperate search had been made of Miss Mack’s sanctum for—what?
Madelyn’s lips tightened as her hand reached into her waist and produced a long, unsealed envelope.
“I had thought Miss Jacqueline might be interested in the letters of the Purple Thumb—but I didn’t fancy her interest was so deep!”
She surveyed the littered room with a shrug.
“On the whole, I should say, though, that she has rather overbalanced the damage to my papers by the service she has rendered me!”
“Service!” I cried.
Madelyn shrugged again.
“I fear I had not been giving the Purple Thumb its proper importance in our little tangle!”
VII
Susan Bolton’s story, when a half hour later saw the haze of the drug somewhat diminished, was the narration of an absurdly simple stratagem. Melodramatic features in Miss Jacqueline’s methods were signally lacking.
Recovering from her swoon shortly after our departure, the maid had gratefully accepted Susan’s suggestion of a cup of chocolate. The hospitality gave her an opportunity which she used to swift advantage. As Susan returned the emptied cup to the stand, a pair of lithe arms encircled her neck. For a moment, she had a glimpse of a soaked sponge and a pair of dark eyes. The drugging of Peter the Great had probably been accomplished quite as easily. It was an hour after Susan’s recovery that he staggered dazedly back to his favorite rug in the den.
I have often wondered since if that final scene in our drama, toward which unconsciously we were already rushing, would have been quite the same had Jacqueline, the burglarious, given the canine bodyguard of “The Rosary” a fatal whiff of her drugged sponge—if, for instance, Madelyn would have ventured her last, supreme risk in that life-or-death climax with the same readiness! It was obvious, at once, that our crafty visitor had made a clueless retreat. Doubtless she had taken her time in her futile search, perhaps made an unconcerned departure through the front door!
Nor was there further trail of the prowler of the yellow face. The shadows had already veiled the trail of his footsteps across the snow when Madelyn circled her flashlight from the window where we had glimpsed his blurred features. There was evidence in plenty to show where he had stood. Evidently he had maintained his vigil for some minutes before discovery, but there were no signs of returning steps, either here, or elsewhere in the yard, although we rounded the chalet twice.
On our return from our fruitless exploration, Madelyn cleared her desk with a rather ruthless sweep, rummaged for a magnifying lens, and produced again the two letters of the Purple Thumb. For a silent ten minutes she studied them.
“Have you noticed anything distinctive about these documents, Nora?” she asked abruptly. “Anything, for instance, which would induce a person to adopt desperate tactics to gain their possession?”
I shook my head doubtfully.
“The police receive a score of such communications every day.”
Madelyn leaned back, the tips of her fingers musingly together.
“And yet we face two decidedly puzzling details. The letters give no hint of signature or address, although the writer emphatically expects an answer. And Miss Burton told a palpable untruth when she declared she had received no others, unless, unless——
“Suppose we begin at the outset of to-day’s events, and recall them in their proper sequence,” she broke off. “We have first Jacqueline’s visit. We know now that its purpose was to lure me away, obviously so that a search might be made of my papers. For what? Plainly for Miss Burton’s letters, since they are the only documents I possess bearing on the case. And yet, so far as we have been able to see, the letters contain nothing to warrant such an effort. There remain, then, two conclusions: the communications possess a hidden message which we have not yet discovered, or their point is supplemented in some other fashion. In either event, we have not found their true significance—and it is not intended that we should!
“But it is equally evident that, if we are in ignorance of their concealed meaning, there are several who have a closer knowledge. There is the maid, Jacqueline, the yellow-faced gentleman at the window, and, finally, the show-girl, Gwendolyn Calvert. And, I should say, each is acting independently of the others. We have then three distinct lines of convergence. That is our most hopeful fact, Nora. Those lines are bound to meet, sooner or later!”
“Then one of those factors must have been instrumental in Miss Burton’s disappearance!” I broke in.
“You are assuming too much!” said Madelyn testily. “You forget that Miss Burton’s vanishing could have been voluntary as well as involuntary. Grant that there were certain menacing elements directed against her, elements which may even have conspired for her removal. They may have been successful in their purpose—or they may have failed. Miss Burton may have disappeared of her own accord—to elude them!”
“And in that event——”
“Her escape has been successful, so successful that the forces she has evaded are as interested in finding her as we are!”
“And they are seeking to destroy the letters of the Purple Thumb because they contain a clue to their purpose!” I interjected.
“Perhaps!” said Madelyn drily. “And perhaps there is another explanation. Miss Jacqueline may have been acting not for the writer—but for the recipient! If Ariel Burton disappeared of her own accord, you must remember that she disappeared from her friends, as well as from her enemies—and she may not desire either to locate her!”
I stared. “Then the letters——” I burst out.
“Contain a guide to the solution of the riddle, which we have not yet found,” answered Madelyn wearily. She turned. “Nora, will you kindly start the phonograph for me? Put on the ballet music from ‘Faust.’ Thank you! I believe you have your article yet to write for The Bugle, haven’t you? You will find a comfortable table and an excellent light in the living-room!”
“Which means bluntly——” I retorted.
“That I want to be alone for the next hour!”
I found that Susan had been assisted up to her own chamber. The living-room was deserted. I drew a chair to its table, moved a pad of paper over to my elbow, and then sat uncertainly, tapping my fountain pen. From the closed door of Madelyn’s den rippled the ballet strains of “Faust,” a pause, and then the melody continuing. Madelyn had evidently started the record over again. With an effort, I tried to throw off the suggestion that persisted in intruding into my thoughts. Miss Mack had enumerated three persons interested in the riddle of the Purple Thumb. She had overlooked a fourth. Had she forgotten Thorny Preston—and the card in the white orchids?
It was seven when I finished my last paragraph. I glanced up with a sigh to see Madelyn facing me, with hat and coat on.
“It is twenty minutes over the hour I mentioned. Are you ready for another trip to town?”
“Where, this time?” I demanded. “Dinner?”
“Perhaps,” she returned drily.
At the door, she turned back and dropped into her pocket an object that gleamed coldly in the light. Most emphatically it was a curious dinner that called for the accompaniment of a revolver!
As we settled into a seat in the Subway-train, Madelyn spread out a copy of The Bugle which she drew from her bag, and her face disappeared behind its pages. I stared through the window for perhaps ten minutes, and then I broke the silence with an ironical grin.
“You seem to find an absorbing interest in the newspaper accounts of the case, Miss Mack!”
“Do you think so?” Madelyn said pleasantly, without lifting her eyes.
I leaned closer. And then I saw that the date of the paper was more than a week before!
Madelyn’s gaze met mine with a provoking gleam as I leaned back. She was actually chuckling at me!
“Are you interested in psychology, Nora? Then here is a little problem that may help to relieve the tedium of our ride. What is the natural channel of communication of a blackmailer, not educated up to a cipher, and yet who wishes to keep his point of attack in the background?”
I opened my lips to protest, but Madelyn had again retreated behind the paper. On the whole, I was not surprised when we left the Subway in the neighborhood of the Lenox—but the fashionable apartment building was not our immediate destination.
Madelyn turned into a quiet-fronted residence hotel on one of the cross streets near upper Broadway, and approached the desk with an air of business-like briskness.
“I believe that Mr. Sebastian Amador is registered here. Will you kindly tell him that the lady he is expecting has arrived?”
The clerk ran a finger over the bookkeeper’s day-book.
“Mr. Amador paid his bill and left an hour ago, madam.”
Madelyn caught her breath.
“Did he leave a forwarding address?”
The clerk consulted a slip at his elbow.
“I find none, madam.”
Before the sentence was completed, Madelyn was dragging me into the street. As she darted through the doorway she sighted a taxicab at the curb.
“The Lenox!” she flung to the driver, and pushed me into a seat as we swerved toward the river.
I subsided against the cushions as we sped across Broadway, grazing the end of a clanging surface car with hardly a foot to spare.
“And who is Sebastian Amador?” I gasped, finding my breath.
“The gentleman who paid us a call this afternoon,” she snapped, “but who was in too much of a hurry to come in!”
A bump in the pavement threw us against the side of the car.
“Why the Lenox now?” I jerked out.
“Because I must know at once whether Ariel Burton disappeared of her own volition,—and, if so, whether the danger she eluded is still threatening her!”
A curious exhilaration was sweeping through my blood. It was the wild throb of the man-chase. Again I could see the blurred, yellow face at the window, the fainting form of the French maid. What sinister trail were we following, and where would it end? Had Miss Mack read the message of the Purple Thumb? And what had it told her?
With an order to the chauffeur to wait, Madelyn sprang across the walk toward the brown-stone front of the Lenox, only slightly slackening her steps as we passed into the marble and gilt splendor of its hall. Martha answered our bell with a swift change of expression, ludicrous under other circumstances. It was as though she viewed our arrival as the forerunner of another climax like that of the afternoon!
It was easy enough to see, as we passed in the white-and-gold living-room, that the housekeeper was regarding us with scant favor. Her suspicion almost turned to open protest with Madelyn’s first action.
Darting across the room. Miss Mack pressed the electric switch in the wall and plunged us into darkness.
“That is better!” she said. “And now, Martha, will you kindly extinguish the other lights?”
The housekeeper bridled.
“Really, ma’am, you——”
“Are you going to do as I ask you?” snapped Madelyn. The superior will won. A moment later, Miss Burton’s flat showed no signs of occupancy. As the lights of the hall disappeared, Madelyn’s electric search-lamp sent a flickering circle into the shadows of the living-room, swerved across the apartment, and focused on the gaunt bulk of the theatrical trunk in the corner.
“By the way, Martha, I believe you told me this afternoon that Miss Burton is right-handed. She had trained herself, however, to use either hand on occasion, had she not?”
“Why, er, come to think of it, ma’am, she had. Why do you ask?”
Madelyn made no answer, as she thrust the tube of the flashlight into my hands.
“I’ll leave the illumination with you, Nora. I can manage our next task more expeditiously than you can!”
Thrusting back the heavy trunk-cover, she began a ruthless removal of the close-packed garments within. I could hear Martha’s unheeded protest as the finery of one of the most expensive theatrical wardrobes on Broadway was sent into a pell-mell heap on the floor. Paris and London gowns followed filmy negligees and lingerie with a reckless disregard of damage.
There came a gradual slackening in the whirl of silken lace, more and more apparent, and then a low, quick gasp of elation.
I slanted the light down over Madelyn’s shoulder, my breath quivering. What discovery had inspired Miss Mack’s gasp of sudden triumph?
Over the edge of the trunk my light lowered, down the riveted sides on to—the smoothly cleared bottom, as barren as a clean-swept platter. Blank emptiness. That was all!
I gasped in my turn at the anti-climax.
“We have unraveled one phase of the riddle, Nora! Ariel Burton’s disappearance was entirely voluntary!”
I stared at Madelyn’s shadowy face.
“But there was nothing in the trunk!” I protested. “Absolutely nothing—except clothes! Besides, you, yourself, said that Miss Burton didn’t vanish in the trunk!”
“And I was right! She didn’t!” Madelyn returned crisply. “But that isn’t the vital point. Ariel Burton disappeared to escape a fate that was almost upon her. And the menace, from which she slipped, still exists!”
A steel-muscled arm darted over my shoulder, gripping my hand and the tube of the flashlight. The yellow circle dancing across the bottom of the trunk snapped into darkness. And then, as I realized that the arm belonged to Madelyn, I caught the sound of footsteps through the doorway beyond, the hiss of hoarse breathing—and knew that we were no longer alone in the shadows.
The invasion of the rose-chamber was being repeated. Dimly, through the portieres, I saw a bead of light. Ours was not the only searchlight in Ariel Burton’s apartments that night.
Madelyn’s arm over my shoulder drew back. I could feel her body quiver with suppressed tension, and then she was worming her way across the floor, her black-gowned figure blotted out by the darkness. I caught a flash of her hand at a corner of the portieres; but it was only a flash. At the same instant, the searchlight in the other room splintered to the floor to the accompaniment of a woman’s scream, that was not Madelyn’s. There was a scuffling of feet, a guttural, foreign-sounding oath, and, at the end, the bark of a revolver, like the yelp of a kicked dog.
I dashed across the living-room, throwing back the portieres in a kind of frenzy. A glare of light struck my eyes. Some one had found the electric switch, and made use of it. I saw that I had come in time for only the tag end of the drama in the dark.
A man in a light overcoat and black felt hat was plunging through the farther doorway into the rear hall. To his right arm was clinging the frail form of Miss Mack. He turned snarlingly, revealing a pair of close-set, gleaming eyes and, below them, the yellow face that had peered at us through the window of “The Rosary”!
For an instant the two swayed, and then Madelyn was flung back against a chair, and the skirts of the overcoat disappeared like a brownish streak. Before I could reach her side, Madelyn was springing into the hall in unshaken pursuit.
It was then that I became aware of another occupant of the room. A disheveled young man in evening clothes was leaning dazedly against the opposite wall. On the tip of his ear twisted a thread of blood like a red raveling.
“The beggar almost winged me!” gasped Thorny Preston, half turning. “Another fraction of an inch——”
His sentence dwindled in the middle as he recognized me. For a moment we stood staring at one another. I knew that my face had gone white, and that I was reaching out mechanically to find something to steady myself, as though the feel of a solid surface under my hand would steady also the whirl of my thoughts. Thorny Preston added to the marauders of Ariel Burton’s apartments! Thorny Preston one of the prowlers of the rose-chamber, in search of—what?
And then he put an end to my speculations by lurching forward into a chair, and fainting almost literally in my arms. And being human—and a woman—everything promptly fled from my universe except the trickle of blood on his neck and his closed eyes.
His swoon, however, was not so serious as its dramatic nature might have warranted. Even before the water, which Martha brought in sort of submissive terror, reached me, his eyes were fluttering. As I pressed the glass to his lips, Madelyn stepped back from the corridor.
“We have lost our birds again! Twice now.”
Thorny sat up weakly in his chair. Madelyn’s eyes narrowed on his face.
“As an amateur burglar, Mr. Preston, I should advise you to make sure next time that you are not shadowed—particularly by a gentleman of Spanish blood! I should have associated a knife, however, rather than a gun with Señor Amador!”
“Amador?”
Thorny’s eyes gleamed, and he made a movement to rise. Madelyn pushed him back.
“I scarcely think there is occasion for hurry! I fancy you will find Miss Calvert has made a secure retreat!”
The dull flush again swept Thorny’s face. I could feel him glancing at me out of the corner of his eye. So my half-fancy of a woman’s figure darting into the hall, as I burst into the room, had been correct! Mr. Preston then had formed a partnership with Gwendolyn Calvert in his nocturnal expedition!
Madelyn gazed at him a minute in silence.
“Don’t you think the psychological moment has come for frankness on your part?”
Thorny was staring at the floor. I could understand that his head must be ringing from the shock of the wound, but there were evidently other causes for his perturbation. He presented all the appearance of a very much ill-at-ease young man.
“For instance,” continued Madelyn, “the errand that made it necessary for Miss Calvert and yourself to descend to burglar tactics?”
Thorny drew a deep breath.
“I am not at liberty to answer that question, Miss Mack!”
“Then, perhaps, I can answer it for you! “
Thorny’s glance raised, and then lowered almost stubbornly. A somewhat harder note crept into Madelyn’s voice.
“I don’t know whether Miss Calvert saw you personally, or telephoned the message that brought you to her aid. In any event, she told you that Ariel Burton’s welfare depended upon prompt and secret action. By the way, was Miss Calvert’s friend on the second floor, who came to her assistance, the butler or——”
“She was using the apartment of her cousin, who is in Europe,” snapped Thorny, “number eight! She found accidentally that the same keys fitted the doors up here.”
“That explains, then, her prompt disappearances. As to what happened after you reached Miss Burton’s apartments, the details are fairly obvious—your grapple with your unseen assailant, Miss Calvert’s flight—I regret, Mr. Preston, that you did not have opportunity to complete your mission! We will retire, if you desire to finish it now!”
Thorny staggered to his feet.
“Then, for God’s sake, tell me how!”
Even Madelyn stared.
“You mean——”
“I mean that we were to find in this room that which would explain Ariel Burton’s vanishing, but what it was I have no more idea than you have! Gwen Calvert knew. I guess she had been here before. Just as she was opening her lips to explain to me—well, you know what happened. I was seized from behind, and she was running back into the corridor, screaming!” Thorny moistened his lips. “The key to the whole affair is in this room, Miss Mack—between these four walls!”
Madelyn paced across the floor. Something cold and hard had come into her face—like the glint of the spent fighter who sees his antagonist suddenly reinforced.
“Is it a letter, Mr. Preston—a letter of the Purple Thumb?”
“It is not!” came the decisive answer. “Gwen Calvert knew almost as little about those letters as I did. I knew, of course, they were throwing Miss Burton into a blue funk, that they were preying on her mind fearfully; but she gave me no inkling of what was behind them. It was not until this evening that I found from Gwen——”
“You must meet me frankly, Mr. Preston!”
Thorny bit his lips.
“——That they were written by this Spanish chap!” he continued abruptly.
“I guess Amador had been trying to make a tool of Gwen, using her to keep him posted on Miss Burton’s movements, and in the end she decided to investigate on her own account. But he was like an iceberg whenever she mentioned the letters.”
“You are quite sure you are speaking plainly?”
“Quite sure!”
“Then what about the card in Miss Burton’s bouquet that you concealed from us?”
Thorny flushed.
“I saw only the blank side when I picked it up! I was as much surprised as you at what was on the other side!” He hesitated. “Gwen Calvert overheard me reading aloud the letter that came to Miss Burton at our last rehearsal. It threatened to kill her unless she married the writer without delay. Gwen even thought I was making the threat on my own account!” He broke off. “This is awful, Miss Mack! Surely something can be done—it must be done! Gwen Calvert was in white earnest when she called me to-night. The explanation of the riddle is in this apartment, and we have got to find it!”
“But it is apparent, Mr. Preston, that we cannot make a search until we know what we are seeking. You must locate Gwendolyn Calvert and force her to tell me her story!”
“But——”
Madelyn gripped his arm.
“No woman in New York is facing a more genuine peril than Ariel Burton to-night! If, for any reason, Miss Calvert cannot, or will not, talk, our last chance of aiding her is gone!”
Through the silence of the flat pealed the hall bell. We could hear Martha answering the summons with mechanical obedience. Then sounded a crisp voice, and Lieutenant Byron’s “plain clothes” assistant of the afternoon stood frowning at us. His eyes narrowed at Madelyn’s figure.
“Miss Mack, can you step down-stairs, please?”
For a moment none of us spoke. There was that in his voice and face which sent an almost indefinable tautness through the room. It was as though we had caught the first, faint note of a far-off alarm bell.
Madelyn stepped to the officer’s side. His voice lowered, and we could see her recoil. Then Thorny and I were racing into the hall—Thorny forgetful of the shock of his wound—and Madelyn’s finger was jabbing at the elevator bell.
There was no answer, and we were soon to see the reason. In a panting trio, we stumbled down the last flight of stone stairs.
A background of marble and gilt splendor—a dazzle of lights—huddled groups of theatre-bound parties, filmy-cloaked women and silk-hatted escorts—liveried servants—all staring grotesquely, for it was the first time that most of them had been brought face to face with tragedy.
On a leather divan, Gwendolyn Calvert, with a little crimson splotch like a dash of red ink on her white shirtwaist, lay staring back at them with a sort of dazed bewilderment still showing through the film of death.
“She was shot down on the walk at the corner of the building!” jerked out Lieutenant Byron. “Tall, dark man in a light overcoat fired the bullet. He has made a clean get-away—so far!”
VIII
I have often questioned whether any one but Madelyn Mack could have accomplished what followed. Lieutenant Byron maintains that she did it because she was a woman. I differ with him. Feminine psychology may have been a factor, but it was nothing less than genius in the final analysis.
The lieutenant held us for a moment on the edge of the group.
“It happened right under our eyes, Miss Mack! If we——”
“I can guess how it happened!” said Madelyn. She thrust past him, and caught the arm of a man, evidently a physician, at the divan.
“We must keep her alive for sixty seconds longer, Doctor! We must!”
“She is gone now!”
The physician gave a professional shrug. And then, as though to belie his words, the girl’s staring eyes trembled, and her lips partly opened.
“If I had an electric battery,” the doctor hesitated, “I might do what you ask, madam; but without it, it is impossible!”
Madelyn bent lower over the white face. And then, as the doctor drew back with a suggestion of tolerance, occurred the miracle.
“Gwen, girlie! Gwen, I say!”
It was not Madelyn Mack, the inquisitor, pleading with a witness; but a show-girl appealing to one of her kind. Had Miss Mack spent an apprenticeship in a Broadway chorus, her voice could not have acquired more perfectly the vibrant, metallic tones of the footlights. Even phlegmatic Lieutenant Byron was staring incredulously.
“Gwen, I say, don’t you hear the call-bell? Let the rest of your make-up go! Do you want the stage-manager to fine you?”
At Madelyn’s shoulders we were bent forward, our eyes held to the face on the divan. Would the daring expedient of psychology win over death? Would the old, familiar call of the stage re-animate the dying will of the show-girl when medical stimulants had failed?
Again the grey lips moved, again the eyes trembled, and then a wave of animation, like the spurt of a fading fire, illumined their depths. Madelyn had won! I could see her muscles stiffen as she stooped still lower. It was as though she would hold death at bay by sheer physical strength.
With measured distinctness, she spoke again.
“Help me save Ariel Burton, Gwen! Tell me now!”
The grey film fell a second time like a sinister shadow. I tried to turn my face away. Death would not be cheated. And then, even as the thought framed itself, Gwendolyn Calvert’s hand fluttered to her waist, and her lips murmured the words like a far-off voice on a defective telephone wire:
“The broken fan! Find other half! It—it——”
I wonder if the sentence was finished in eternity? One could almost fancy that the dead lips were still moving...
I saw Madelyn’s hand slip under the white shirtwaist, fumble near the red blot on its bosom, and emerge with the jagged half of an ivory fan. On its surface was scribbled in a hurried pencil scrawl the beginning of a notation, which had obviously been finished on the missing section:
“2156 Sy
“Yo”
Madelyn snapped the fan shut, and darted across the hall to the stairs. Even Lieutenant Byron’s call did not make her pause. When I drew my eyes back from her disappearing figure, the tension in the lobby had broken. The first of the halted groups was already moving through the swinging doors into the street. The unexpected eddy in the life of the Lenox had passed. Doubtless, in a few minutes, the faces that had blanched at the shadow of death would be convulsed by the buffoonery of the vaudeville. I could hear a querulous lady exclaim indignantly that she would be late for the opera!
In a corner of Lieutenant Byron’s mouth an unlighted cigar had been thrust nervously all through the short drama. With a mechanical movement, he tossed it to the floor and ground it under his heel.
“Burke,” he snapped to his assistant, “I’ll leave the rest of the details down here to you. If you need me, you’ll find me up-stairs.”
“If they should bring our man in, sir——” suggested Burke.
The words recalled me with a start to the fact that we had learned nothing of the details of the crime.
“You are searching for a man with a yellow face, of a Spanish type?” I demanded.
The lieutenant nodded grimly.
“There are two witnesses of the shooting, who might have caught the assassin on the spot if they hadn’t been so afraid of their own precious lives! Why, our taxicab was turning into the block below at the time. If we had come two minutes sooner——” He broke off abruptly. “It seems to me, Miss Noraker, that you have information to give as well as receive!”
I gazed at Thorny. His forehead was beaded with perspiration, his eyes swollen. On the heels of his wound, the stress of the past five minutes had brought his nerves to the snapping point.
“Oh, there is no occasion now to keep anything back!” he said wearily. “God, to think that, while we were talking up-stairs, Gwen was going to her death, and we could have saved her!”
He glanced across at the still figure on the divan.
“If I ever lay my hands on the brute that killed her, Lieutenant, the police and the courts need not worry about justice!”
The lieutenant reached for a fresh cigar.
“Just now, it occurs to me, Mr. Preston, that you could serve Miss Calvert more wisely by giving me an account of what happened before my arrival on the scene.”
Thorny brushed his hair back from his eyes, hesitated a moment, and began the narrative that Madelyn had wormed from his unwilling lips. He finished it as we stepped from the elevator at Miss Burton’s floor. Lieutenant Byron made no comment as he pressed the bell. There was no answer. Again his finger pushed the disc, and then his hand impatiently caught the handle of the door. It swung open noiselessly. With a growing frown, he led the way into the living-room. And there we paused.
The rose-chamber beyond was flooded with all of its available lights. In the glare, the room presented a curious scene. Drawers were piled on the floor, and their contents dumped into a heap beside them. Stands and mantel had been swept clear. Even the garments of an adjoining closet, cunningly concealed by the wall draperies, had not escaped. The appearance of the room suggested the scene of ravage we had found in Madelyn’s den at “The Rosary;” but this time Miss Mack, herself, was responsible for the confusion.
In the center of the havoc, Madelyn was standing, her eyes shot with cold, glinting specks of light. Martha was completing the despoiling of the closet with much the enthusiasm of an unwilling prisoner at the point of a gun.
At the sound of our steps. Miss Mack half turned her head, snapping open her watch.
“Ten-forty! We have until ten-fifty to act, Lieutenant, if we are to avert another tragedy!”
She extended the section of the broken fan she had taken from Gwendolyn Calvert’s waist.
“Somewhere in this room we will find the remainder. And we have just fifteen minutes to do it!”
Lieutenant Byron’s eyes narrowed on the notation on the ivory surface, as Madelyn crossed the room, and swept a glance into the dismantled closet.
“You will see that the fan contains a portion of an address,” she said over her shoulder. “A life may depend on our completing that address, and reaching it at once!”
From the adjoining room, the telephone sounded. Lieutenant Byron turned mechanically. We could hear his voice replying dully to the summons, and then it was raised sharply. A moment later he was back in the doorway, his face flushing. Madelyn shot a glance in his direction.
“Is it Sewell Collins?”
The lieutenant’s lower jaw dropped.
“How in blazes did you know?”
“I didn’t know. I merely expected it. How long has he been gone?”
“He hasn’t been seen since he left for the Union League Club for dinner. He never reached it. His man is at headquarters now, frantic. Says his master has been murdered!”
“He hasn’t been—yet!” said Madelyn grimly.
The lieutenant passed his hand wearily over his eyes.
“This—this is getting on my nerves, Miss Mack! What’s the answer?”
Madelyn pointed to the broken fan in his hand.
“When we find the other half of that trinket, we’ll find Ariel Burton, and, likewise, Sewell Collins! Martha tells me her mistress broke the fan recently at the theatre, and lost part of it at the time. Miss Calvert found the part that she lost. We must locate the other section!” She jerked her hand toward her watch. “Eight minutes left to do it!”
“And we will find Ariel Burton at the address on the fan?” demanded Lieutenant Byron.
“She has been there for nearly twenty-four hours! Doubtless she engaged the place by telephone at the theatre, and jotted down the notation on the fan. Why we’ll discover later!”
The lieutenant strode into the chamber, his briskness restored.
“And the fan is hidden in this room?”
“Not hidden!” retorted the enigmatic Miss Mack. “If it were hidden, our task would be simple!”
The lieutenant stooped toward a stack of the heaped-up garments. At his side, Thorny was mechanically following his example. Madelyn turned from a last scrutiny of the dressing-table drawers.
“We are wasting time, all of us! And our margin is now a trifle under six minutes! Line up against the wall there—you too, Martha! We will form a class in the science of deduction. We have approached this as a physical problem, and failed. We will now reduce it to a mental problem. Where would a woman entering her room with a broken fan naturally put it—with no purpose of concealment?”
“Dressing-table,” responded Thorny.
“Closet,” I hazarded.
“Perhaps it was in a pocket of her coat, and she didn’t take it out!” suggested Lieutenant Byron.
“Logical, but we have shown all of those answers wrong,” said Madelyn wearily. “And two more minutes are gone!”
We made a curious study in emotions as we stood there, for all the world like a group of backward pupils before an impatient teacher. Madelyn stood, with her watch in her hand, staring from face to face as though she would stir our sluggish thoughts by the sheer force of her own will.
“Where else could a woman carry a fan besides her coat pocket or hand bag?” she persisted.
We stared blankly. And then Madelyn found the answer herself.
“Did Miss Burton carry a muff, Martha?”
“She had three, ma’am. Two are on the chair in the corner there, and the other is on the bed.”
Madelyn snatched up the last mentioned, a rich, roomy creation of silver fox, thrust her hand into its depths, and withdrew it slowly.
It was characteristic of her that not a muscle of her face showed her victory. It was not until her hand reached the light that we saw she was holding the missing half of the ivory fan.
Lieutenant Byron sprang to her side, extending the section he still held. The scribbled lines were joined without a break:
“2156 Sycamore Street,
“Yonkers”
Madelyn snapped shut her watch.
“I fancy, Lieutenant, that you will have the pleasure of greeting soon both Miss Burton and Mr. Collins!”
“But the time limit, Miss Mack—ten-fifty-five? I don’t understand.”
“I found that the next train leaves for Yonkers at eleven-seven, and I allowed a margin of twelve minutes to catch it. Of course, I knew that Yonkers must be our destination. That is the only suburb which the first two letters, ‘Y-o,’ would fit.”
IX
A cheery, old-fashioned house, with cosily blinking lights, met us at the end of a quiet, eminently respectable block in one of the most quiet, most eminently respectable streets of Yonkers. There could be no doubt about the number. We had reached “2156 Sycamore”—and the end of our quest.
I had been picturing vaguely a dim-shadowed dwelling in an obscure corner of town, or perhaps a deserted mansion among sighing trees—the kind you read about in a shivery detective story—as the fitting goal for our search, with an entrance obtained through a cellar window, an ascent of creaking stairs, and a fight in the dark with an unseen enemy. I was conscious of a certain sense of disappointment.
“2156 Sycamore” was thoroughly commonplace, genially matter-of-fact. If there was one thing it lacked, it was assuredly the atmosphere of mystery.
And the manner of our approach could not have been further removed from any suggestion of the dramatic.
Lieutenant Byron conducted us up the front steps, even pausing to wipe his feet on a strip of matting, and then quite deliberately rang the bell. A serving-man, with a round, expectant face, answered the summons without delay.
The lieutenant stepped past him into a wide hall, motioning us to follow.
“I believe we are expected,” he said quietly.
The servant bowed.
“Will you step into the library, sir? I think you are just in time!”
I glanced at the man. Just in time—for what? A moment later I knew! With his most affable smile, he threw open an adjoining door, and waited as eight pairs of eyes whirled toward us. After all, it was an occasion for affable smiles even from a newly hired servant!
I don’t know whether we or those whom we had interrupted were the more amazed.
Four persons were standing in the center of the room; a gravely-spectacled gentleman, in a somewhat rusty frock coat, obviously a minister; Miss Ariel Burton, in the most perfect of evening toilettes; Sewell Collins, with his eyes blinking nervously in his pudgy face; and, slightly behind them, the slimly petite figure of Miss Jacqueline.
For just an instant the tableau lasted, and then Miss Madelyn stepped forward.
“I trust we are not intruding?”
My eyes were riveted on Ariel Burton. Her face had gone white, but her eyes were blazing like two coals. She spoke with a sort of suppressed fury.
“It should be quite evident that you are intruding! However, if you will be seated for a few moments——”
Sewell Collins turned back to the minister, and the latter, surveying us in mild disapproval, raised a Bible from a stand at his elbow.
“Unfortunately,” replied Madelyn, “we cannot take advantage of your kind invitation.”
She continued her advance until she reached the quartet.
“Before the ceremony proceeds, there are certain statements I wish to make, which I feel are necessary to the occasion.”
The minister laid back his Bible with a dubious sigh. Sewell Collins turned irritably. Ariel Burton’s eyes lost something of their blaze. I fancied she was swaying slightly. Madelyn caught her arm as though to steady her, but later we knew that her purpose was far different.
“Mr. Collins,” she began directly, “are you familiar with the history of this lady whom you were about to make your wife?”
Sewell Collins glared.
“Certainly!”
“You know, then, that you are not marrying Ariel Burton, the actress, but——”
Madelyn held up Miss Burton’s right arm. The light played on the tapering fingers, the jeweled rings which covered them, the slenderly rounded thumb. We all stared. Under the thumb nail was a dull, purplish line, indelibly printed on the pink flesh. Even then we did not guess!
From her bag, Madelyn extended to Lieutenant Byron a crumpled newspaper, with a blue-ringed paragraph.
“Will you kindly read aloud the article I have marked?”
In a mechanical tone, the lieutenant complied.
“Sebastian Amador, a planter from Haiti, is registered at the Algonquin Hotel on a curious mission. He is in search of his runaway wife, whom, he charges, deserted him three years ago, and fled from his home under an assumed name. As he describes her, she is a remarkable young woman, of an exceedingly curious history. Her mother was a French woman, of great beauty, and one of the popular actresses of the European stage of a generation ago. At the height of her career she fell in love with a wealthy young Spanish planter of Haiti who was on a visit to Paris. The two were married, and the favorite of the Parisian footlights exchanged the stage for a tropical plantation. Here a daughter was born to her, who inherited both her mother’s beauty and dramatic ability. It was this daughter whom Amador later married, and who, as he alleges, fled from him after less than a year of married life. After nearly four years of silence from her, he has found a clue to her whereabouts, which leads him to the belief that, through her inherited talents, she has won a spectacular success in the New York theatres. With all the ardor of his Southern blood kindling at the news, and thirsting for a reconciliation, Amador, on receipt of the information, at once sailed for this city.
“And now comes the strangest part of the narrative, rivaling the plot of a sensational novel. The mother of the runaway Señora Amador also fled from her husband twenty-five years ago, leaving behind her newly-born child. The motive of her desertion was the discovery that the man to whom she had given herself was not of pure Spanish blood, as she had believed, but——”
Lieutenant Byron broke off, the balance of the sentence in his throat, as he stared from Madelyn to the swaying form of Ariel Burton.
With a little wrench, the latter slipped from Madelyn’s hand. For a moment she stood quivering. The blaze had quite gone from her eyes, leaving them sunken embers in the ashes of her cheeks. Suddenly she flung up her right arm.
“There is no need for you to read further. Can’t you see it? Feast your eyes on it, all of you—the Purple Thumb!”
The strange-colored ridge under her delicate nail seemed to glow with a dull, throbbing anger. We stared, fascinated. She still held her arm upraised.
“Look well, you whose smug sensibilities I shock! Ah, it means nothing to you! But you do not know Haiti! Must I then explain? I am branded—branded with the birthmark of the negro! I am a mulatto!”
She reeled, and then flung back our glances with a sort of wild defiance.
“This is the secret from which my mother fled, and from which I fled when he, whom the law called my husband, made it his taunt! But I could not leave it behind. Always it was with me, mocking me, lashing me, whispering that the world whom I had forced to its knees would sometime know—and then, instead of its bouquets and its jewels and its plaudits, it would hurl my shame back into my face! And now it does know!”
With a little moaning cry, she shriveled back into the nearest chair.
Sewell Collins was standing like a man paralyzed—still rigid, when Madelyn darted of a sudden past his shoulder. It was then that the rest of us became aware for the first time that a window had opened. Against it crouched a man, raising with sinister steadiness a revolver. Without warning we were whirled to the climax of melodrama.
We saw Madelyn swish across the path of the weapon, her arm flash out and down, and then a yellow flame snapped toward Ariel Burton’s chair.
But Madelyn’s rush had diverted the muzzle the fraction that meant a spent bullet.
Señor Sebastian Amador crashed back under the impetus of her body into the arms of two men in black derbies, who might have been twin brothers of Lieutenant Byron’s “plain-clothes,” satellite, as they bobbed up from the window-sill. There came the click of handcuffs as the revolver clattered to the floor. The foremost of the two detectives touched his hat to Lieutenant Byron.
“He shadowed you from the Lenox, sir. When we saw he answered your description of the man wanted for the Calvert murder, we trailed him from town, thinking to spot his game here before we bagged him.”
Ariel Burton had straightened in her chair. Her gaze clung to Amador’s yellowish face, as his voice raised.
“If I didn’t get you one way, I reckon I have in another—maybe worse from your way of judging! You played a clever game with your mysterious vanishing act to escape me, and what I might have to tell the man you wanted to marry; but you might have known better than to match yourself against me. So you were going to capture a millionaire husband, and play the high lady, you—you——”
“Don’t!” The protest was wrung from Ariel Burton like a dry groan.
One of the detectives clapped his hand over Amador’s lips.
“Shall we take him outside, Lieutenant?”
Lieutenant Byron nodded.
“And—Franklin, see that you don’t cut your margins so confoundedly close in future!”
Instinctively our gaze focused next on the figure of Sewell Collins. I will own at once that my estimate of his stamina had been sadly underrated. I had looked to see him perhaps in a state of collapse. Instead he had shaken off his stupor and was surveying us with a glint in his eyes that I had never thought to see there. Perhaps it was a flash of the rugged will of the old steel foundry days, which the emergency of the moment had awakened down under the ravages of midnight Broadway.
He addressed the bewildered clerical gentleman with a touch of business-like crispness which I’ll venture his voice had not held for years.
“Here is the fee, sir, which I believe you would have expected under other circumstances. I shall not need your services further this evening!”
The minister fingered the yellow-backed bill nervously, cleared his throat, found voice sufficient for a murmured “good night,” and shambled rather reluctantly toward the door. I have often wondered what impressions the experiences of the evening must have left in his peaceful, clerical brain!
As the door closed behind his retreating figure, Sewell Collins turned to Madelyn.
“And now, Miss Mack, I will be obliged for a more detailed statement than you have yet given me.
“May I ask you first to explain your presence here?”
“I was descending from my car at the Union League Club when a note was handed me by a young woman, whom I recognized as Miss Burton’s maid, stating that she was in trouble, and pleading that I accompany the messenger to her at once, and without publicity.”
“I surmised that that was probably the way it was done,” said Madelyn musingly. “And what explanation was given you when you arrived?”
Sewell Collins shifted his position to avoid looking at Ariel Burton.
“As a matter of fact, none—nor did I ask for any. I—I loved Miss Burton honestly. When I saw her I repeated my offer of the protection of my name, a step which I had suggested for some time, and urged an immediate marriage.”
Madelyn glanced at the crumpled form beyond Mr. Collins’ shoulder, as she continued the story.
“I should say at the outset that Miss Burton had divorced Amador, a fact unknown to him until after his arrival in New York. She had dissolved his legal claims to her.
“The secret of her life had been buried so deep that it seemed impossible of resurrection. The gulf between Ariel Burton, the petted theatrical star, with her name in six-foot electric letters, and the obscure mulatto girl of Haiti, appeared impassable. She had made a new career for herself, had succeeded beyond her wildest dreams, was flattered, admired, feted. A millionaire had offered her marriage. And then came the first of the letters of the Purple Thumb.
“She saw her castle of cards crashing, the brand of her birth exposed, herself dragged back to all from which she had fled.
“Amador was shrewd enough to make his personal communications to her purposely vague, and to supplement them through the newspapers. Only her identity was hidden. But she lived in constant terror that the next screaming ‘Extra’ would reveal it.
“We received a proof of Amador’s desperation when, furious at the disappearance of his victim, he murdered his tool, Gwendolyn Calvert, in the belief that she had betrayed him. Whether he was animated by an insane jealousy, or coveted the spoils of the blackmailer, or both, I am convinced that, had the marriage to-night been consummated, while he was at large, sooner or later Miss Burton’s life would have paid the forfeit. Incidentally, it was this last consideration—we must not mince words!—the knowledge that she was in imminent danger of losing the position that, as Mrs. Sewell Collins, she would hold, which completed her despair, and determined her on the bold coup of her disappearance.”
A suggestion of weariness slipped into Madelyn’s voice.
“It was necessary not only to elude her Nemesis, but—and again we must speak frankly!—allow herself opportunity for her marital ambition. In other words, she must vanish—and yet still remain in touch with her world. The theatre offered the most effective background for her plans. How was it possible to spirit herself away from a crowded playhouse so that the manner of her disappearance would not be detected?
“In the end, she decided to make use of the obvious means of a trunk.”
“But you said that was not the agency she employed!” I protested accusingly.
“I said she did not disappear in a trunk!” said Madelyn impatiently. “The trunk which answered her purpose was carried from her dressing-room some time before its owner vanished. In fact, after it was gone she played through a portion of an act. Ariel Burton was not concealed in the trunk—but Jacqueline, her maid!”
“You forget,” interrupted Thorny, heedless of Madelyn’s glare at another break in her narrative, “that Jacqueline was as much in evidence after the trunk had gone as Miss Burton.”
“She was not,” snapped Madelyn. “The young woman whom we regarded as the maid, who gave the hysterical alarm of Ariel Burton’s disappearance, was not Jacqueline—but her mistress! Ariel Burton vanished by assuming the costume and role of her maid after she entered her dressing-room to change her gown for the last of the second act! If we had looked into the room during her absence on the stage, we would have found it empty. But that was a chance she had to take. And it was empty again when Miss Burton, in the character of Jacqueline, came out on an ostensible errand of her mistress—and returned to startle us with the announcement that the actress had vanished!
“As a matter of fact, while we searched frantically for Ariel Burton, she was at our elbows!
“In the meantime, the trunk, containing the obliging Miss Jacqueline, had arrived at the Lenox. Miss Burton, leaving the theatre, still in the role of her maid, returned to her apartments, released Jacqueline, and with her aid packed the trunk, and relocked it. Martha, the housekeeper, had been given a convenient leave of absence. When the task was finished, Miss Burton, leaving her maid at the flat as a sort of scout in the enemy’s country, made her way to the house she had rented in Yonkers—and awaited developments. I think that completes the statement you desired, Mr. Collins.”
Thorny had drawn a memorandum book from his pocket during the latter portion of the recital.
“If you don’t mind, Miss Mack, there is one other point. I will confess that I essayed the role of amateur detective, myself—with the usual results. To aid me, I tried to make a chronological table of everything that occurred on the stage during the evening. I find that, contrary to your statement, both Miss Burton and her maid were in the dressing-room after the trunk had been sent away! We distinctly heard their two voices while we were before the door!”
“My dear Mr. Preston!” retorted Madelyn in a tone that made Thorny wince, “as a playwright, there is no doubt of your ability. In future, I would advise you to confine your activities to that field! We heard two voices as you suggest—apparently. But they emanated from Miss Burton alone. Your stage training should have been the first to suggest the explanation. Miss Burton was using her dramatic ability to carry on an imaginary conversation—and I am prepared to admit that she succeeded admirably!”
Sewell Collins snapped open his watch.
“I think that is all, Miss Mack!”
Ariel Burton still sat crumpled in her chair, her eyes on the floor. Sewell Collins glanced at her, hesitated, and drew from his pocket a slender, morocco-covered check book. He opened it, and produced a fountain pen. For a moment he wrote deliberately.
“Miss Burton—or should I say Señora Amador?—I had expected to present you with this as a wedding present!”
He laid a delicately engraved slip of paper on the stand, and, with a bow to us, walked to the door.
“Miss Mack,” he said, turning with an after-thought, “you will hear from me by mail tomorrow.”
And then occurred that which, to me, has always seemed the most incomprehensible incident of the whole grotesque affair.
Ariel Burton roused herself.
“Just a moment, Mr. Collins!”
With the slip of paper in her hand, she stepped after him.
“You have not given me an opportunity to thank you. I am, indeed, grateful for your kindness!”
With a sudden movement she tore the check into quarters, and, bowing slightly, scattered on the floor the fragments of the order for two hundred thousand dollars.
Sewell Collins stared, opened his lips, and then closed the door after him.
With a little shrug, Ariel Burton returned to her chair, and leaned her elbows wearily on the stand. In its center was the only intimate object in the room, a mauve-bordered photograph of Sewell Collins. She reached across and laid it face downward.
Lieutenant Byron turned awkwardly, and led us in our turn from the room. At the door, we saw that Ariel Burton had again picked up the photograph.
“I wonder if she loved him after all?” I asked softly.
“I should say that is just the question she is putting to herself,” said Madelyn drily.
It was not until we turned into the street for our walk back to the station that the silence was broken again, and then Lieutenant Byron spoke.
“You will understand my professional curiosity, Miss Mack, when I ask how you did it!”
Madelyn laughed.
“I was wondering how long you would wait for that question! It is when we drift away from the ear-marks of the professional criminal, where the card-index methods of headquarters are of no avail, that the lack of imagination in the police department is evident.
“For instance, the first three clues in the riddle of Miss Burton’s dressing-room were a cigarette stub on the dressing table, a hair brush, and the ornament of the golden butterfly. The cigarette and the brush were both on the left side of the table, suggesting obviously that the last occupant of the room was a left-handed woman who smoked.
“When I found that it was not Miss Burton, but her maid, who was the nicotine devotee, and when I was told, later, that Miss Burton was right-handed, and saw that the maid was left-handed, my half-crystallized theory received a set-back until I was informed by the housekeeper that the actress could on occasion use both hands with equal dexterity.
“There were three explanations which could account for Miss Burton’s disappearance. One of these was the substitution of herself in the character of her servant. This involved the physical elimination of the latter. How? The golden butterfly gave the first suggestion. The most natural use for the ornament was as the handle of a knife. If this were the case, the blade had been snapped, evidently in some violent test of its strength. What, for example?
“If a trunk had entered into the affair, we might fairly assume that the breaking of the knife had occurred in the making or enlarging of a breathing outlet for the imprisoned occupant.
“When I saw that the trunk at the Lenox contained no evidence of such mutilation, I was at a loss until, on a second examination this evening, I found from an interior view that a luggage-label had been neatly pasted over the hole that had been made with augur and knife for Miss Jacqueline’s benefit. I infer that the trunk had been previously prepared for the emergency, but that, in the moment of service, an enlargement of the air-hole was found necessary.”
Lieutenant Taylor walked on in a silence, which from him was perhaps a more sincere appreciation than words.
I may state here that in due course Sebastian Amador was led to the electric chair at Sing Sing. And, as the postscript of my story is largely personal, it would be as well to gather up at this point, also, the loose threads as to my other characters.
Something less than a week after the final chapter of our drama, Sewell Collins sailed for Europe. Through our Paris correspondent, we learned that he spent the next three months at the German baths. His career as a Broadway patron has never been renewed.
Of Ariel Burton—as Ariel Burton—we have heard or seen nothing since that memorable night in Yonkers. Perhaps somewhere, under a different name, she has begun her stage career anew. I never enter a theatre that I do not find myself scanning the stage for some suggestion of the vanished “star” of “The Girl from Milwaukee”…
We were nearing the Yonkers station when Madelyn glanced back at Thorny and me. “I was very nearly forgetting something, Nora. This is evidently your property. I found it on the back stairs of the Lenox in the trail of Gwendolyn Calvert’s flight,”
She extended an unsealed envelope, addressed to me at The Bugle office. There are those who say that a crisis in one’s life casts a preparatory shadow. For my part, I opened the letter from the dead without a suspicion of the message it held for me.
“MY DEAR MISS NORAKER:
“I don’t know why I am writing this. Something stronger than my own will tells me that I should do it—and do it now, or it will be too late. Is it a hunch that something is about to happen to me—something different from anything Gwen has yet found on the boards?
“When I told you that Thorny Preston had promised to marry me, I did not tell you the truth. Maybe, you can understand the hysteria of a woman with a hopeless love. I doubt it. Few women can—who haven’t been through it!
“And I know now, too, that Mr. Preston’s conversation with Miss Burton had a much different meaning than that which I supposed. But this is not alone the reason for my writing you. It is to tell you the name of the woman whom Mr. Preston does love.
“On second thought, however, I am not going to do it! If you cannot guess it for yourself, you do not deserve to know.
“GWENDOLYN CALVERT.”
A truant wind whisked the letter from my hand, as I finished it under the glare of a corner light. With a gasp I saw Thorny Preston spring forward and rescue it from the Yonkers gutter. He straightened to return it and then paused. His glance had caught mechanically his name on the crumpled page.
He raised his eyes inquiringly, saw my flaming face under the arc-lamp, and then, without a word, read the note deliberately. I gathered up my skirts, and fled. I thought I heard him call after me.
We were midway in our early morning ride back to town when Thorny, swinging out of the smoker, paused at my seat.
“By the way, Nora, who is the society editor of The Bugle since Miss Williams left?”
“Why?” I asked, unsuspecting.
“I thought perhaps you might not like to write the announcement of your own wedding. We are to be married this afternoon!”
The world whirled about my ears, as I stared back at him. And then—
“A proposal in a railroad car!” I flared.
Thorny grinned.
“My dear girl, I thought you had been a reporter long enough to appreciate the human interest element!”