PART I. WRAITHS OF THE STORM by Mrs. Jacques Futrelle
Professor Augustus S. F. X. VAN DUSEN--The Thinking Machine--readjusted
his thick spectacles, dropped back into the depths of the huge chair,
manuscript in hand, and read:
"Something less than three months ago I had a photograph taken. As I look
upon it now I see a man of about thirty years, clean shaven, full faced,
and vigorous with health; eyes which are clear and calm and placid,
almost phlegmatic; a brow upon which sits the serenity of perfect
physical and mental poise; a pleasant mouth with quizzical lines about
the corners; a chin with determination and assurance in every line; hair
brown and unmarked with age. I was red blooded then, lusty, buoyant with
life and animalism, while now--
"Here is a hand mirror. It reflects back at me the gaunt, haggard face of
a man who might be any age; furtive, shifting eyes in which lies
perpetual, hideous fear; a brow ruffled over into spidery lines of
suffering; a drooping, flabby mouth; a chin weak and utterly devoid of
the assurances of manhood; hair dead white over the temples, with strange
grey streaks through it. My blood is become water; youth is frozen into
senility; all things worth while are gone.
"Fear, Webster says, is apprehension, dread, alarm--and it is more than
that. It is a loss of the sense of proportion, an unseating of mental
power, a phantasmagoria of perverted imagination; a vampire which saps
hope and courage and common sense, and leaves a quivering shell of what
was once a man. I know what fear is--no man better. I knew it that night
in the forest, and I know it now, when I find myself sitting up in bed
staring into nothingness with the echo of screams in my ears; I knew it
when that grim, silent old man moved about me, and I know it now when
without conscious effort my imagination conjures up those dead, glassy
eyes; I knew it when vicious little tongues of flames lapped at me that
night, and I know it now when at times I seem to feel their heat.
"I know what fear is! It is typified by a little ivory god which squats
upon my mantel as I write, grinning hideously. Perhaps there is some
explanation of the event of that night, some single hidden fact which, if
revealed, would make it all clear; but seeking that explanation I have
grown like this. When it will end, I don't know--I can only wait and
listen, always, always!
"Impatient, half famished, and wholly disgusted at a sudden failure of my
gasolene supply, I ran my automobile off the main roadway and brought it
to a standstill in a small open space before a little country store. I
had barely been able to make out the outlines of the building through the
utter darkness of the night,--a darkness which was momentarily growing
more dense. Black, threatening clouds swooped across the face of the
heavens, first obscuring, then obliterating, the brilliant star points.
"I knew where I was perfectly, although I had never been over the road
before. Behind me lay Pelham, a quiet little village which had been sound
asleep when I rushed through, and somewhere vaguely in front was Millen.
I had been due there about seven o'clock; but, thanks to some trouble
with a crank, it was now about ten. I was well nigh exhausted from hours
at the steering wheel, and nothing to eat since luncheon. I would spend
the night in Millen, store up a few hours' sleep, after the insistent
demands of my appetite had been appeased, then on the morrow proceed
comfortably on my way.
"This was what I had intended to do. The sudden shortage of motive power
brought me to a stop in front of the forbidding little store, and a
little maneuvering back and forth cleared the road's fairway of the bulk
of my machine. No light showed in the house, but as I had not passed
another building in two or three miles back, it seemed not improbable
that the keeper of the store slept on the premises. I put this hypothesis
to a test by a loud halloing, which in the course of time brought a
nightcapped head to a window just above the door. I hailed the appearance
of the head as a good omen.
"'Got any gasolene?' I asked.
"'I calculate as how I might have a little,' came the answer in a man's
voice.
"'Well, will you please let me have enough to get me to Millen?'
"'It's ag'in' the law to draw gasolene at night,' said the man placidly.
'Cal'late as how you'll have to wait till mornin'.'
"'Wait till morning?' I complained. 'Why man, there's a storm coming!
I've got to get to Millen.'
"'Can't help that,' was the reply. 'Law's law, you know. I'd be sorter
skeered, anyway, to draw gasolene now.'
"Here was another dilemma, unexpected as it was annoying. The tone of the
voice left no room for argument, and I knew the obstinacy of this man's
type. I was prepared, therefore, to accept the inevitable.
"'Well, if you can't draw any gasolene tonight, can you give me a bite
to eat and put me up till morning?' I asked. 'I can't stay out in this
storm.'
"'Ain't got no room,' explained the man. 'Jus' enough space up here for
me an' the dog, an' he kinder crowds.'
"'Well, something must be done,' I insisted. 'What is the price of your
gasolene?' I added by way of suggestion.
"'Twenty-five cents a gallon in day time.'
"'Well, how is fifty cents a gallon at night?' I went on.
"The whitecapped head was withdrawn, and the window banged down suddenly.
For a moment I thought I had hopelessly offended some puritanical old man
of the woods; but then a light glowed inside the store, and the front
door opened. I stepped inside. The light came from a safety lantern in
the hands of a shrunken shanked, little old man, who proceeded to draw
the gasolene.
"'How far is it to Millen?' I inquired casually.
"'Calculate as how it's about five miles.'
"'Straight roads?'
"'Straight 'cept where it bends,' he replied. 'They ain't no turnout nor
nothin'. You can't go wrong 'less you climb a fence.'
"The gasolene was drawn and paid for, after which the old man accompanied
me to the automobile with his safety lantern. He stood looking on
curiously as I filled the tank.
"''Pears to be a right smart storm comin' up,' he remarked consolingly.
"I glanced upward. Every star point was lost now behind an impenetrable
veil of black; there was a whispering, sighing sound of wind in the
trees.
"'I think I can beat it into Millen,' I replied hopefully.
"'I cal'late as how you oughter,' responded the old man. 'Ain't no
thunder an' lightnin' yet, an' I cal'late as how they'll be a pile of it
before it rains.'
"I handed back the empty gasolene can, cranked up, then climbed aboard my
car. There was a whir as I touched the power lever, and the machine
trembled beneath me.
"'If I should get caught before I get to Millen, is there any place I
might stop,' I inquired.
"'I cal'late as how you might stop anywhere,' the old man chuckled; 'but
they ain't no houses nor nothin'. They ain't even a dog kennel 'tween
here an' Millen. But they ain't no turnouts, an' you can hit it up as
fast as you want to. You'll be all right.'
"A sudden gust of wind brought a whirling cloud of dust upon us, and the
thinly clad old man scampered off into the house.
"'Good night,' I called.
"'Good night,' he answered, and the door slammed.
"I backed my car, then straightened out into the road, a wide yellow
stretch, as smooth as asphalt, where the swirling, eddying winds awoke
little dust devils to play. Then I kicked loose the speed gear, pulled
the lever far back, and went plunging off into the night.
"It might have been only my imagination, or it might have been that, as
the car swept on, I heard some one calling me; I'll never know which. But
the lowering clouds and a quickened rush of wind did not make a stop
inviting; so the car sped on.
"I knew a capital little all night restaurant in Millen, and was
speculating pleasantly as to whether it should be a chop and a mug of
ale, or a more substantial steak and potatoes. I was aroused from this
anticipatory mood by the fact that the glittering lamps of my car showed
me straight ahead two roads instead of one. Two roads! Here was another
unexpected annoyance. I brought the automobile to a stop, in doubt and
perplexity.
"To the right the road ran off into the thickening forest, as far as the
steady light gleams showed; to the left it seemed a little more marked,
as if more traveled, and where the light melted into the enveloping
blackness it appeared to widen. I leaped out of the car and went forward,
seeking a guide post or something to show my way. There was nothing.
"Then I remembered that I had a road map in my pocket. Of course that
would tell me. A grumble of thunder came from far off as I drew near the
car to examine the map in the light. Here was Pelham, and here was
Millen; here even the little store where I stopped, marked with a star,
which meant that gasolene was to be procured there. Now I was somewhere
between that store and Millen. The map was a large one. It should show
not only the main road, but every little bypath that cut athwart it. Yet
from the little store to Millen the road was an unbroken line. There was
no branch road on the map; and yet here was one.
"I was perplexed, impatient, and incidentally starving; so hastily made
up my mind which road to take: the left and more beaten one. Heaping
maledictions upon the head of the man who drew that particular map, I
started to climb into the car again, when the veil of night was cleft by
a vivid zigzag flash of lightning. It startled me, blinded me almost, and
was followed instantly by the crash and roar of thunder.
"Then came another sound,--a curdling, nerve racking scream,--a scream of
agony, of pain, of fear,--a hideous, awful thing which seemed to stop my
heart for one fearful instant, then was lost in the thunder of the
approaching storm. Suddenly all was silent again, save for the wind as it
whipped its way through the forest.
"I was not a nervous man; so after the first shock the blood rushed back
to my heart, my head cleared, and I was perfectly calm. But I stood
waiting with my foot on the step--waiting and listening. I argued calmly.
Some one was evidently in distress. But where? In what direction? The
singing wind, the whirling dust, left me no guess. And then again came
that scream, this time a series of quick, sharp shrieks ending in a wail
which made me clench my hands until the nails bit into the flesh, and
left me weak and trembling absurdly.
"But now I had the direction. The cries had come apparently from the
road, somewhere behind me. I walked to the rear of the car where the tail
light shot out a feeble ray, and stood peering off into the blackness in
the direction whence I had come. At first I could distinguish nothing,
then a white, intangible something slowly grew out of the
night,--something hazy, floating, indistinct, yet unmistakably something.
Fascinated, I stood still and continued to stare. The floating white
figure seemed to grow sensibly larger and clearer. It was coming toward
me; it would cross the path of the light in another moment. I caught my
breath and waited.
"Suddenly again came the reverberating crash of thunder, nearer and
louder, but unaccompanied by lightning. Instantly, as if in echo, came
that scream again. Obviously it was some one in distress,--a woman
perhaps, lost in the woods and in terror of the approaching storm. If
this was true then there was only one thing to do; go to her relief.
"I stopped and tugged at the tail lamp to release it from its fastenings.
A ragged edge cut my hand cruelly; but I hardly felt the sting. At last
the light was free in my hand, and I started with it back along the road
to where I had seen the figure. With the lamp thrust straight out in
front of me at arm's length I ran back ten yards, twenty, fifty, and
saw--nothing. I screened the light with my hand, and peered about through
the gloom, and saw--nothing.
"A panic was growing upon me. I flashed the light to the right, to the
left, and it showed only the gaunt, silent trees, straight ahead of me
along the yellow road, and behind me toward the panting automobile. There
was nothing--absolutely nothing! I rushed back to the car; but no one was
there. I called aloud; but the grim forest gave me back only the sound of
my own voice, mingled with the swishing of the wind.
"Then I stopped still in silence and awe, and listened. For a long time I
stood there, light in hand, until the silence grew more terrifying than
the screams had been. I wanted to hear that scream again now, to bring
relief to my bursting heart and shaking nerves, to tell me that it was
real and not some trick of overwrought fancy. But the silence was
unbroken save for the freshening gusts of air which stirred the dry
leaves and rained them down in a gentle patter.
"Finally I turned and walked back to where the car stood throbbing like a
living, breathing thing. It gave me confidence. I struck the tonneau with
my open palm, and laughed suddenly at my unreasoning terror. It was
absurd, a school boy running from his shadow, and here I was a man--a
sound, healthy, hungry man. I had heard the screams, I knew; I had seen
the floating white figure. There was nothing very remarkable about it; it
was a thing to be explained, of course.
"So now, deliberately I searched the road again, this time with the light
turned toward the ground. I went along, stooping, seeking footprints. I
found none; but I could explain even that; the wind gusts had covered
them with dust, obliterated them.
"I straightened up suddenly. Something had sounded, something louder than
the rustling of the leaves, something louder even than the creaking of
the trees. It was a crackling sound--a sound that might have been a foot
pressure upon dry twigs. It seemed to be to the left, and I turned the
light in that direction. Grotesque shadows danced and swayed as the trees
reeled about me. Then high up where the light straggled through the
branches I saw something white--dead white!
"I cleared the road at a stride and plunged into the forest with the
light turned upward. I stumbled over rocks half buried in the leaves; I
slipped once into a ditch which I couldn't see. Finally my foot struck a
fallen tree, and I went forward sprawling on my hands and knees. The lamp
rolled beyond my reach, and utter blackness swooped down as the light was
smothered in the underbrush. As I groped for it I heard again that
crackling sound as of breaking twigs. Perhaps it was coming toward
me--and I couldn't see!
"At last my frantic fingers closed on the lamp, and I shot the light high
above my head, seeking that white something up among the trees. It was
gone! I paused to wipe the perspiration from my brow, and tore my collar
loose. A sudden shower of leaves came down upon my head; there was
another zigzag flash of lightning, a nearby roll of thunder, and the
sinister patter of raindrops falling about me like leaden bullets. The
storm had burst.
"Heedless of all the intangible horrors of that lonely spot in the
forest, maddened by terror at the inexplicable things which had befallen
me, I stumbled back to the pulsating automobile, clambered in, and sent
it forward headlong on the road to the left,--the well beaten road,--the
road which bore evidence of constant travel. The pace was furious; for
somewhere behind me I felt was a misty, floating figure of white, and
somewhere a woman screaming. The rain beat me in the face steadily; the
lightning burst forth in livid, flaming tongues; the thunder crashed
about me,--and my only haven was Millen.
"Suddenly the road widened where a path cut through the dense wood, and
was lost in a perspective of gloom. A single sidelong glance at it as I
rushed past told me it was wider than would be naturally worn by persons
passing, and yet not wide enough for my car, nor even for a narrow wagon.
Here that road map was at fault again. I remembered that grimly, even as
the automobile went splashing along through growing pools of water and
invisible ruts in the wagonway. I clung grimly to the steering wheel with
only one idea in mind: to get to Millen. Already I was wet through from
the terrific downpour, and a chilling numbness was seizing upon my limbs.
"Gradually the road turned toward the left, or so it seemed to me. But
that too might have been the effect of an overwrought brain. The road did
not look so much traveled now, despite the deceptive ruts into which my
wheels sank with maddening frequency. Yet beneath its sheet of water the
steadily gleaming lights showed that there was a road, plainly marked.
For a minute or more, I suppose, I went straight on, desperately,
recklessly; then an illuminating flash across the sky showed me that I
was plunging into open country, and that the forest was gradually
receding.
"Finally, through the swirling, drenching rain, I saw a faint rosy point
in the distance. Whatever it was, a lantern I supposed, it at least
indicated the presence of some fellow human being. I drove straight
toward it. The gleam did not falter or fade. Another dazzling burst of
lightning answered my question as to the nature of the light. It was in a
farm house,--a farm house out here where there weren't any farm houses,
squatting in an open field, a ramshackle, two-storied affair. But at
least it would serve to shelter me from the fury of the storm. I took in
all of it at one glance, even to a small shed in the rear where I might
store my machine.
"I didn't pause to call as I drew near, but drove to the shed and ran my
car in. Then, guided by the constant lightning flashes, I walked round to
the front of the farm house, passing through the stream of light from the
window as I went. It cheered me, that light. It offered an unexpected
haven, that physical refreshment of which I was so much in need, possible
companionship, and above all a refuge.
"I knocked on the front door loudly, the thunder was rolling incessantly
now, then shook the water from my dripping garments. I waited--waited
patiently enough for half a minute, I suppose. There was no answering
sound of any sort, and again I knocked, this time insistently, even
clamorously. Still no answer. It was not difficult to imagine that the
continuous roar of the elements had drowned the feeble knock, and I
repeated the performance with several thumping, banging variations. Still
no answer.
"Even in this desperate strait I did not care to enter the house as a
thief might, by forcing my way, and run the risk too of being received as
a thief, possibly with a bullet. So I stepped down from the veranda, and
went to the lighted window, intending to attract attention by rapping on
the glass. My first glimpse told me no one was there; but the room gave
every evidence of occupancy. A big cheerful log fire was burning, and its
flickering light showed books strewn about here and there, inviting
chairs, a table, and all the little knickknacks that make a comfortable
sitting room. There beside that brightly blazing fire was comfort, and
here the penetrating chill of the storm.
"I had no further scruples about it. I was going into that room! I ran up
the steps, and was just reaching out my hand to try the knob, when the
latch clicked, and slowly, silently, the door swung open. Naturally I
expected to meet some one,--some one who had anticipated me in lifting
the latch,--but I saw no one. The door had merely opened, revealing a
rather long, broad hallway, with a stair in the distance, and unlighted
save for the reflection from the sitting room. I took just two steps
across the threshold, enough to get out of the swirling rain, then
stopped and called. No one answered. I called a second time. For a wonder
the thunders were silent just then, and there was no sound save that of
my own voice. I ventured along the hall to the sitting room door and
looked in. It was cozy, warm, comfortable, more so even than I had
imagined when I looked in through the window.
"All at once I was overcome by a guilty sense of intrusion. What right
had I to enter a strange house at this time of night in this manner, even
to get out of a storm? My personal safety seemed at stake, somehow. I
turned and started back for the door by which I had entered, with the
intention of remaining there till in someway I could attract the
attention of the occupants of the house.
"But I didn't reach the door; for directly in front of me stood a man. He
was tall, angular, aged, and a little bent. A straggling gray beard
almost covered his face, and thick gray hair hung down limply from
beneath the brim of an old slouch hat. He was beside me, almost within
reach of my hand, almost treading upon my toes with his great boots, and
yet I had not heard one sound, except when the door clicked as I entered.
It all came to me at once, and I shivered involuntarily.
"'I must apologize--' I began; but I got no further. He had not heard
me, had not even seen me, if I might judge by the manner in which he
walked slowly past me with his chin upon his breast, and his hands
clasped behind his back. I stepped back to avoid a collision.
"'I beg your pardon--' I began again; but he had disappeared into the
sitting room, stalked away noiselessly without even a glance in my
direction, leaving me dripping, chilly, and overcome by the indefinable
sense of impending danger.
"I paused there in the hall and pondered the situation. Surely the old
man had seen me. But I had spoken! Of course, it was possible that he had
neither seen nor heard me; yet--yet--
"'I'm going in there, and I am going to stay until the storm moderates!'
I told myself. 'Perhaps it is just a peculiar old man's way.'
"I removed my automobile coat, hung it upon a peg, walked along the
hallway with a firm tread, and stepped into the sitting room. It was
deserted!
"There are moments in every man's life when the weight of a revolver in
his hand is tremendously reassuring. This was mine. I drew the weapon
from my hip pocket, examined it, and thrust it into my coat within easy
reach of my right hand. Then I stood by the table, drumming my fingers
upon it idly, and debating with myself as to what I should do. I was
looking toward the door by which I had entered. No one came in, and
yet--Suddenly the gray bearded old man was throwing a log on the fire.
The flames shot up and the sparks flew; but there was not the crackle of
fresh burning wood as there should have been--just this silent old man.
My heart was in my throat, and I laughed sheepishly.
"'You startled me,' I explained foolishly in apology.
"He did not look at me; but busied himself about the room for a moment,
and laid his hat upon a couch. Then he went out by the door into the
hallway.
"'Well, upon my soul!' I ejaculated.
"I sat down and deliberately waited for the old man to return. The
uncanniness of it all was growing upon me, the silence of his great boots
as he walked, the fire which didn't crackle as it burned, the lack of any
sign or movement to indicate that he had recognized my presence. Was the
old man real? I came to my feet with an exclamation. Or was it--was it
some weird continuation of that horrible thing in the forest?
"I put out a cold, clammy hand to the fire. That seemed real--at least a
warmth came to me, and gradually my fingers lost their numbness, and
looking upon my own hand I fell to remembering the hands of my strange
host. They were knotted, toil worn, and the left forefinger was missing.
That fact struck sharply upon my memory, and I remembered too a scar over
one eye when he removed his hat. That all seemed real too, as did these
things upon the mantel here in front of me: an empty spool, an alabaster
cat, glaring red and white, a piece of crystal of peculiar shape upon the
farthermost corner. And near it, so close that at first it seemed a part
of it, was a queer little ivory god sitting upon his haunches, grinning
hideously.
"I lifted the ivory image and examined it curiously. It was real enough.
I had stepped back from the mantel a pace to let the firelight fall upon
it, when suddenly I knew that the old man had returned. I didn't hear
him, I hadn't seen him,--I merely knew he was there. I felt it. I slipped
the little image into my pocket involuntarily as I turned; for all my
interest was instantly transferred to a tray of food which the old man
carried. I remembered I was hungry.
"He placed the things upon the table in the same ghostly silence. There
was a jug of milk, some jelly, a little pat of butter, and several
biscuits. I went forward and thanked him. He was absolutely impassive,
seeing nothing, hearing nothing, and seeming to have no connection with
the things around him. He didn't invite me to eat,--I assumed that
privilege and gingerly poked a finger into a biscuit. It felt like a
biscuit. I bit it; it tasted like a biscuit. In fact, I am convinced to
this day that it was a biscuit. And against the reality of that biscuit
was the silent old man and his ghostly tread.
"Real, or unreal, the food was refreshing and good, and I fell to with a
will. The old man sat down in a rocker by the fire and folded his hands
in his lap. I ventured a remark about the storm. He didn't answer. I
really had not expected that he would. The modest supper brought a tingle
to my blood again. My rioting nerves were calmed, the room cozy, the fire
comfortable. I was beginning to enjoy this singular experience; but an
occasional glance at the swaying rocker where the old man sat by the fire
kept expectation on the qui vive. The rocker swayed dismally, but without
the slightest sound.
"The warmth, the food, and my utter exhaustion conspired to make me a
little drowsy, and I think once I must have closed my eyes. I opened them
with a start. From somewhere above me, below me, or outside where the
storm still growled, came that awful, heart tearing scream again, ending
in a wail that brought me to my feet. The old man did not heed the quick
movement by the slightest sign,--he was still comfortably rocking.
"'What is it?' I demanded. 'What is it?'
"Revolver in hand, I rushed toward the door leading into the hallway. The
old man was there ahead of me. He didn't touch me, and yet imperceptibly
I was forced aside. He crossed the hall and went up the stairs. After a
moment I heard a door open and shut.
"Except for the noise of the storm, the scream, and my own voice, it was
the only sound I had heard since I entered the house.
"I went up those stairs; why I cannot say, except that something, a
vague, undefined curiosity, seemed to impel me. And with this impulse
came again, stronger than ever, that sense of personal danger to
myself--the feeling that had possessed me ever since I entered the house.
"I groped my way through the darkness to the top of the stairs; then my
hand ran along a wall till I came to an open door. I stood there a moment
undecided whether to investigate further or to retrace my steps. I was on
the point of going back down the stairs; but the flare of a candle almost
in my face stopped me. The old man held the candle, shading it with his
left hand, from which the forefinger was missing. The wavering light gave
the withered old face a strangely drawn expression.
"He was within three feet of me, gazing straight into my face, and yet I
felt, I knew, he didn't see me. It occurred to me even then that it was
the first time I had seen his eyes. They were white and glassy. Blind? I
do not know. For one moment he stood there staring, then passing me
entered the room beyond, where he put down the candle. I followed him
into the room as a moth follows a flame. It was the light, I think, that
lured me in. Here once for all I would make an end of the thing. The old
man, still noiselessly, went out the door by which he had entered, off
through the darkness--somewhere. The door swung to. Like a madman I
sprang forward and shot the bolt. I don't know why.
"I felt caged. Whatever was to come, was to come here! It was an
intuition more strongly upon me than the sense of danger. I sat down on a
clean little bed and stared thoughtfully at the single door,--that only
way out save one of two small windows which I imagined overlooked the
yard. I examined my revolver carefully. Every chamber was loaded, and the
cylinder whirled easily. Well and good. I waited. What for? I don't know.
"The candle burned with a straight, unwavering flame, while I crouched
there on the bed for a long time. The grumble of thunder was growing
faint and far away; but the rain swished against the windows in sheets.
Here was a vigil, it seemed, and a long one; for sleep seemed hopelessly
out of the question despite the insistent drowsiness of exhaustion. I
wondered if the candle would last throughout the night. It was not yet
half burned. I gazed at it with a certain returning sense of assurance;
and as I gazed it flickered, flared up suddenly, and went out.
"I don't know what happened then. It might have been ten minutes later,
or it might have been half a dozen hours, when strangling, choking fumes
of smoke aroused me. My lungs were bursting for air. I struggled up on
the bed, and was instantly conscious of the crackling sound of burning
wood--of fire. The house was on fire! I rushed toward the bolted door, to
find the flames already eating through the thin panels, and little red
tongues shot out at me. I was cut off from the stairs.
"From there to one of the little windows! The glow far out through the
rain told me instantly that the structure was aflame. I glanced downward.
Sinuous forks were below me, on each side of me, above me. There was
nothing to do but jump. I had only a moment to decide. I drew in my
breath and pulled myself upon the ledge.
"And then again I heard that scream. Far across the open field where the
glow from the blaze dimmed off into the shadows, I saw faintly a misty
white figure with outstretched arms fleeing toward the forest. A little
behind the floating white figure, and nearer to me, well within the range
of the firelight, the old man was following. Even at the distance I could
see that his chin drooped upon his chest and his hands clasped behind his
back. That was all I saw.
"The next instant I had jumped.
"I found myself in my automobile skimming along a smooth, hard road that
led through a forest. It was not familiar, and I don't know in what
direction I was headed, nor did it matter then so long as I got away from
those things behind. My ankle was broken, my clothing torn and burned in
spots, and my head was throbbing with pain.
"Then I found myself in what seemed to be a street in a small city. A
faint, rosy line was just tinging the eastern sky. Houses to right and
left of me were closed forbiddingly; but just ahead was the solitary
figure of a man, walking slowly along, swinging a stick. I ran the
automobile alongside him, shouting some senseless question, then fell
forward fainting. My last recollection was of shutting off power.
"When I recovered consciousness it was to find myself upon a cot in a
strange room, perhaps a hospital. A physician was bandaging my ankle. A
thousand questions leaped to my lips; and some of them burst forth in a
torrent.
"'Don't talk!' commanded the physician brusquely.
"'But where am I?' I insisted.
"'Millen,' he responded tersely. 'Don't talk!'
"It struck me curiously that I should be here,--that I should have
reached the point for which I was bound even after all that had happened
to me. It seemed centuries since I had left Pelham somewhere behind.
Perhaps it was all a dream. But those screams! That silent old man! This
broken ankle! I dropped into agonizing slumber after awhile,--the sleep
of sheer exhaustion,--but asleep I lived again those awful moments which
had almost driven me mad.
"On the following day I was calmer. The physician asked me some
questions, and I answered them to the best of my ability. He did not
smile at my fright; only shook his head and gave me something which made
me sleep again. And so for a week I lay there, helpless, half asleep, and
half awake. But one day I awoke to clear consciousness, comparatively
free of the torture of the broken ankle, and myself again. Then the
physician and I discussed the matter at length.
"He listened respectfully as I repeated it all, and at the end shook his
head.
"'There is no intersecting road between the small store of which you
speak and the outskirts of Millen,' he said positively.
"'But, man, I was there!' I protested. 'I turned into the other road,
and ran along till I saw the house in the open field. I tell you--'
"But he let me go no further. I knew why. He thought it was some mental
vagary; for after awhile he gave me a pill and went away. So I resolved
to solve the matter for myself. I would go back along that road by day,
and find that silent old man, and, if not the house itself, the charred
spot where it had stood. I would know that intersection; I would know
even the path which led from the mysterious road off into the wood. When
I found these I knew the maze would fade into some simple, plain
explanation--perhaps even an absurd one.
"So I bided my time. In the course of another week I was able to leave my
cot and hobble about with the aid of crutches. It was then that I took
the physician in my car, and we went back along the highway toward
Pelham. It was all unfamiliar ground to me; there was no road, and
suddenly there ahead of me was the little store where I had bought the
gasolene that night. I would question the old man I had seen there; but
there was no old man. The little store was unoccupied; it seemed to have
been unoccupied for weeks.
"I turned back and traversed the road toward Millen again. I recognized
nothing; I couldn't find a trace of a bypath from the highway in any
direction. And once more I went over the ground at night. Nothing! After
that the physician, a singularly patient man, accompanied me as I hobbled
through the forest on each side of the road seeking that house, or its
ashes. I never saw anything to lead me, to even suggest, a single
incident of that awful night.
"'I know the country, every inch of it,' the physician told me. 'There
isn't any such place as you mention.'
"And--well, that's all. I know his opinion was that my story was some
sort of delusion--a dream. But how he accounts for the broken ankle I
don't know. Then the condition of my clothing! I had been compelled to
discard everything I wore for garments sent down from the city. And so in
time I came to believe the experience a dream. I was growing content with
this story, even knowing it to be wrong, because it brought mental rest,
and was beginning to be myself again.
"Then one day I had occasion to search the coat I had worn that night for
some papers which had been misplaced. In the course of the search I
thrust my hand into an outside pocket, and drew out--a little ivory god,
sitting on his haunches, grinning hideously!
"Now I am like this--and the little god sits up laughing at me. He
knows!"
When he had finished reading, The Thinking Machine dropped back into the
chair, with squint eyes turned steadily upward, and long slender fingers
pressed tip to tip. Hutchinson Hatch, reporter, sat staring in silence at
the drawn, inscrutable face of the scientist.
"And the writer of this?" demanded The Thinking Machine at last.
"His name is Harold Fairbanks," the reporter explained. "He was removed
to an asylum yesterday, hopelessly insane."
PART II. The House That Was. by Jacques Futrelle
EDITOR'S NOTE.--Mrs. Futrelle undertook to set up a problem which The
Thinking Machine could not solve. "Wraiths of the Storm," in The Sunday
Magazine last week, presented what she thought to be a mystery story
impossible of solution. Printer's proofs of the story were submitted to
Mr. Futrelle, who, after frequent consultations with Professor Van
Dusen,--The Thinking Machine,--evolved "The House that Was" as the
perfect solution.
The Thinking Machine lowered his squint eyes and favored Hutchinson Hatch
with a long, steady stare which for the moment seemed totally to
obliterate him as a personality. Gradually, under the continued unseeing
but tense gaze, there grew upon the newspaper man a singular sense of
utter transparency, a complete invisibility, an uncomfortable feeling of
not being present. He laughed a little finally, and lighted a cigarette.
"As I was saying," Hatch began, "this Harold Fairbanks is hopelessly
insane, and--"
"I imagine," interrupted the eminent man of science,--"I imagine that
this insanity of Fairbanks's is rather a maniacal condition?"
"Yes," Hatch told him. "I was going to say--"
"And that possibly it took a homicidal turn?" The Thinking Machine
continued.
"Yes," the reporter assented. "He tried to--"
"Against a woman, perhaps?"
"Precisely. The direct cause of his--"
"Please don't interrupt, Mr. Hatch!" snapped The Thinking Machine. He was
silent for a time; Hatch smiled whimsically. "The object of his homicidal
mania," the scientist continued slowly, as if feeling his way, "was--was
his mother?"
"Yes."
Hatch dropped back into his chair and met the squint blue eyes fairly. He
was not surprised at this statement of the case, thus far correct,
because he was accustomed to the unerring accuracy of the master mind
behind those eyes; but he was curious to know just how far that logical
brain would follow a circumstantial thread which it had developed of
itself out of an apparent nothingness. Nothing in the manuscript, nothing
he had said, had even indicated, to his mind, the more recent
developments.
The leaves of the manuscript fluttered through the slender white fingers
of The Thinking Machine, and the straight line of the thin lips was drawn
down a little as he glanced over a page or so.
"He shot at her?" he queried at last.
"Three times," the reporter informed him. The Thinking Machine raised his
eyes quickly, inquiringly, to those of the newspaper man. "She was not
wounded," the reporter hastened to say. "The shots went wild."
"That happened in Fairbanks's own room?"
"Yes."
"At night?"
"Yes; about one o'clock."
"Of course!" exclaimed the little scientist crabbedly. "I know that."
Again there was a pause. "Mrs. Fairbanks has a room near that of her
son--perhaps on the same floor?"
"Just across the hall."
"And she was awakened by some unusual noise in his room?"
"She hadn't been to sleep." The reporter smiled.
"Oh!" and again The Thinking Machine's squint eyes were turned toward the
ceiling. "Some unusual noise attracted her attention, then?"
"Yes," the reporter agreed.
"Screams?"
"Yes."
The Thinking Machine nodded. "So she ran to her son's room just as she
was--in a white night robe, I imagine?"
"Precisely."
The reporter was leaning forward in his chair now, staring into the
impassive face before him. Still he wasn't surprised--he was merely
curious and interested in the workings of that mind which laid before him
in order these incidents which were not known to it by any tangible
method.
"And as she entered her son's room," the scientist resumed, "he shot at
her?"
"Three times--yes."
The Thinking Machine was silent for a long time. "That's all?" he
remarked inquiringly at last.
"Well, Fairbanks was raving, of course," and Hatch dropped back in his
chair. "He was overpowered by two servants, and--"
"Yes, I know," broke in The Thinking Machine. "He is now in a padded cell
in a private asylum somewhere." This was not a question; it was a
statement. "And this manuscript was found in his room after he had gone?"
"It lay open on his table. That is his handwriting," explained the
newspaper reporter.
The Thinking Machine arose and walked the length of the room three times.
Finally he stopped before the newspaper man. "And is there really such a
thing as this grinning god that he describes?" he demanded.
"Certainly," Hatch responded, and his tone indicated surprise.
"Not necessarily certain," said the scientist sharply. "Do you know there
is a grinning god?"
"Yes," replied the newspaper man emphatically. "It was taken away from
Fairbanks when he was locked up. He fought like a fiend for it."
"Naturally," was the terse comment. "You have seen it, have you?"
"Yes, I saw it. It's about six inches tall, seems to be cut from a solid
piece of ivory, and--"
"And has shiny eyes?" interrupted the other.
"Yes. The eyes seem to be of amethyst, highly polished."
Again The Thinking Machine walked the length of the room three times. "Do
you know anything about self hypnotism, Mr. Hatch?" he inquired at last.
"Only that there is such a thing," replied the reporter, wondering at the
abrupt change in the trend of the conversation. "Why?"
The Thinking Machine didn't say why. "You came to me, of course, to see
if it was possible, by throwing light on this affair, to restore
Fairbanks's mind?" he inquired instead.
"Well, that was the idea," Hatch agreed. "Fairbanks was evidently driven
to his present condition by the haunting mystery of this thing, by
brooding over it, and by the tangible existence in his hands of that
ivory god which established a definite connection with an experience
which might otherwise have been only a nightmare, and it occurred to me
that if he could be made to see just what had happened and the underlying
causes for its happening, he might be brought back to a normal
condition." The reporter was silent for a moment, with eyes set on the
drawn, inscrutable face of The Thinking Machine. "Of course," he added,
"I am presuming that if it was not a diseased mental condition the things
as he set them down did happen, and if they did happen I know you won't
believe that they were due to other than natural causes."
"I don't disbelieve in anything, Mr. Hatch," and The Thinking Machine
regarded the newspaper man quietly. "I don't even disbelieve in what is
broadly termed the supernatural--I merely don't know. It is necessary, in
the solution of material problems, to work from a material basis, and
then the things which are conjured up by fear and--and failure to
understand may be dissipated. That is done by logic, Mr. Hatch. Disregard
the supernatural, so called, in our material problems, and logic is as
inevitable as that two and two make four, not sometimes, but all the
time."
"You don't deny the possibility of the so called supernatural, then?"
Hatch asked, and again there was a note of surprise in his voice.
"I don't deny anything until I know," was the response. "I don't know
that there is a supernatural force; therefore," and he shrugged his
slender, stooping shoulders, "I work only from a material basis. If this
manuscript states facts, then Fairbanks saw an old man, not a spook; he
saw a woman, not a wraith; he jumped to escape a real fire, not a ghost
fire. When we disregard the supernatural, we must admit that everything
was real, unless it was pure invention, and the broken ankle and burned
clothing are against that. If these were real people, we can find
them--that's all there is to that. Yet there is a chance that the whole
tale is a fiction, or the product of a disordered brain. But even that
being true, it interferes in no way with the inevitable logic of the
affair. When we know that this manuscript is in existence, and when we
know that the man who produced it has since become a raving maniac, the
sheer logic of the thing reveals clearly the intermediate steps."
"How, for instance?" Hatch inquired curiously.
"Well, we have this," and The Thinking Machine rattled the sheets of the
manuscript impatiently; "and while we'll admit it was written by a sane
man, we know that that man has since become a maniac. I stated the
incidents which led to his incarceration as logic unfolded them to me.
First I knew that insanity from fear and failure to understand nearly
always takes the maniacal turn; therefore I saw that instead of being
insane, as you stated first, Fairbanks was probably a maniac. There is a
difference."
The reporter nodded.
"Next, one of the first manifestations of a maniacal condition is a
homicidal tendency. Did Fairbanks attempt homicide? Yes.
"Now the problem grew a little more complex, rather intricately
psychological, if I may say it that way," The Thinking Machine explained
precisely. "However, it goes back generally to the broad grounds that a
woman in a flowing white night robe typifies the popular conception of
the ghostly, and when we know that this supposed wraith, or one of them,
was a woman in white, we see that in Fairbanks's condition at the moment
the appearance of such a figure would have instantly aroused him to the
frenzy which led to the subsequent events."
"I understand, so far," Hatch remarked.
"Now the only woman--the most likely woman, I should say--to go to his
room in a white night robe was his mother." He paused for a moment.
"Therefore, his mother was in all probability the object of his attack.
Remember, he was mad with fear, and, appearing suddenly as she did,
perhaps in a dim light, she was to his disordered brain the incarnation
of that thing he most feared."
Hatch seemed to be perfectly fascinated. His cigarette burned up until
the fire touched his fingers; and he barely noticed it.
"In this manuscript," The Thinking Machine resumed after a moment,
"Fairbanks tells me that he had a revolver, and shows a distinct weakness
for the weapon. Therefore, wouldn't he shoot at this incarnation of the
thing which was responsible for his condition. He did shoot. The fact
that the incidents happened in Fairbanks's own room at night was an
assumption based upon the fact that his mother figured in it, and the
further fact that she was dressed for bed when she appeared in his room.
Of course, if her room was near, her attention would be attracted by some
unusual noise. If these noises were due to a maniac, they were in all
probability screams."
"Well, by George!" Hatch remarked fervently. "It's--"
"Now the first thing to do is to see Fairbanks in person," interrupted
The Thinking Machine, with a sudden change to a most business like tone.
"I think, if he can comprehend at all, that I may be able to do something
for him."
The Thinking Machine--Professor Augustus S. F. X. Van Dusen,
scientist--was cordially, even deferentially, received by Dr. Pollock,
physician in charge of the Westbrook Sanatorium.
"I should like to spend ten minutes in the padded cell with Fairbanks,"
he announced tersely.
Dr. Pollock regarded him curiously, but without surprise. "It's
dangerous," he remarked doubtfully. "I have no objection, of course; but
I should advise that a couple of keepers go in with you."
"I'll go alone," announced the diminutive man of science. "It may be that
I can quiet him." Dr. Pollock merely stared. "By the way," The Thinking
Machine added, "you have that little ivory god here, haven't you? Well,
let me see it, please."
It was produced and subjected to a searching scrutiny, after which the
scientist set it up on a table, dropped into a seat facing it, leaned
forward on his elbows, and sat staring straight into the amethyst eyes
for a long time. A curious silence fell upon the watchers as he sat there
immovable, minute after minute, staring, staring. Hatch absently glanced
at his watch and went over and looked out the window. The thing was
getting on his nerves.
At last the scientist arose and thrust the grinning god into his pocket.
"Now, please," he directed curtly, "I shall go into the cell with
Fairbanks alone. I want the door closed behind me, and I want that door
to remain closed for ten minutes. Under no circumstances must there be
any interruption." He turned upon Dr. Pollock. "Don't have any fears for
me. I'm not a fool."
Dr. Pollock led the way along the corridor, down some stairs, and paused
before a door.
"Just ten minutes--no more, no less," directed the scientist.
The key was inserted in the lock, and the door swung on its hinges.
Instantly the ears of the three men outside were assailed by a torrent of
screams, of blasphemy, hideous imprecations. The maniac rushed for the
door, and Hatch for an instant gazed straight into a distorted, pallid
face in which there was no trace of intelligence, or even of humanity. He
turned away with a shudder. Dr. Pollock thrust his arm forward to stay
the swaying figure, and glanced round at The Thinking Machine doubtfully.
"Look at me! Look at me!" commanded the scientist sharply, and the squint
blue eyes fearlessly met the glitter of madness in the eyes of Fairbanks.
He raised his right hand suddenly in front of his face, and instantly the
incoherent ravings stopped, while some strange, sudden change came over
the maniacal face. In the scientist's right hand was the grinning god.
That was the magic which had stilled the ravings. Slowly, slowly, with
his eyes fixed upon those of the maniac, the scientist edged his way into
the cell, Fairbanks retreating almost imperceptibly. Never for an instant
did the maniacal eyes leave the ivory image; yet he made no attempt to
seize it, he seemed merely fascinated.
"Close the door," directed The Thinking Machine quietly, without so much
as a glance back. "Ten minutes!"
Dr. Pollock closed the door and turned the key in the lock, after which
he looked at the newspaper man with an expression of frank bewilderment
on his face. Hatch said nothing, only glanced at his watch and went over
to the window, where he stood staring out moodily, with every nerve
strained to catch any sound which might by chance penetrate the heavy,
padded walls.
One minute, two minutes, three minutes! The second hand of Hatch's watch
moved at a snail's pace! Four minutes, five minutes, six minutes! Then
through the well nigh impenetrable wall came faintly the sound of hoarse
cries, of screams, and finally the crash of something falling. Dr.
Pollock's face paled a little and he turned the key in the lock.
"No!" and Hatch sprang forward to seize the physician's hand.
"But he's in danger," declared the doctor emphatically; "maybe even
killed!" Again he tugged at the door.
"No!" said Hatch again, and he shoved the physician aside. "He said ten
minutes, and--and I know the man!"
Eight minutes! Listening tensely, they knew that the screaming had
stopped; there was dead silence. Nine minutes! Still they stood there,
Hatch guarding the door, and his eyes unflinchingly fixed on the
physician's face. Ten minutes! And Hatch opened the door.
Professor Augustus S. F. X. Van Dusen--The Thinking Machine--was sitting
calmly on a padded seat beside Harold Fairbanks, with one slender hand
resting on his pulse. Fairbanks himself sat with his ivory image held
close up to his eyes, babbling and mumbling at it incoherently. An
overturned table lay in the middle of the cell. So great had been the
power used to upset it that an iron bolt which held it fast to the floor
had been broken short off. The scientist arose and came toward them; and
Hatch drew a deep breath of relief.
"I would advise that this man be placed in another cell," said the little
scientist quietly. "There is no further need to keep him in a padded
cell. Put him somewhere where he can see out and find something to
attract his attention. Meanwhile let him keep that ivory image, and
there'll be no more raving."
"What--what did you do to him?" demanded the physician in deep
perplexity.
"Nothing--yet," was the enigmatic response. "I'd like for him to stay
here a couple of days longer, under constant watch as to his physical
condition,--never mind his mental condition now,--and then with your
permission I'll make a little experiment which I believe will restore him
to a normal condition. Meanwhile he needs the best of physical care. Let
him babble,--he will, anyway,--that doesn't matter just now."
Harold Fairbanks sat beside The Thinking Machine in the second seat of a
huge touring car, with the slender hand of the scientist resting lightly
on his wrist. In front of them the chauffeur was busy with the multiple
levers of the great machine; and behind them sat Hutchinson Hatch and Dr.
Pollock. They were scudding along a smooth road, with the wind beating in
their faces, guided by the ribbons of light which shot out ahead from
their forward lamps. The night was perfectly black, with not a light
point visible save those carried by their own car.
Behind them lay the quiet little village of Pelham, and miles away in
front was the town of Millen. From time to time as the car rushed on The
Thinking Machine peered inquisitively through the darkness into the face
of the man beside him; but he could barely make out its general shape,--a
pallid splotch in the darkness. The hand lay quietly beside his own, and
a senile voice mumbled and babbled--that was all. The newspaper man and
the physician in the rear seat had nothing to say; they too were peering
vainly at Fairbanks.
At last through the gloom the outlines of a small building loomed dimly
in front of them, just off the road to the left. The Thinking Machine
leaned forward and touched the chauffeur on the arm.
"We'll stop here for gasolene," he said distinctly.
"Gasolene--stop here for gasolene!" babbled a senseless voice beside him.
The Thinking Machine felt the hand he held move spasmodically as the huge
car ran off the main roadway and maneuvered back and forth to clear the
fairway of its bulk. Finally it stopped, with its tonneau, end on, within
a few feet of the door of the building. The scientist's fingers closed
more tightly on the wrist; and after a moment the incoherent mumbling
began again.
Hutchinson Hatch and Dr. Pollock arose and got out. Hatch went straight
to the little building and rapped sharply. The sound caused Fairbanks to
turn vacant, wavering eyes in that direction. After a moment a
nightcapped head appeared at the window above. The Thinking Machine shot
an electric flashlight into Fairbanks's face. The eyes, now fixed on the
nightcapped head, were wide open, and a glint of childish curiosity lay
in them. The babblings were silent for a moment,--somewhere in a recess
of the maddened brain a germ of intelligence was struggling. Then, as the
scientist regarded him steadily, the expression of the face changed
again, the eyes grew vacant, the mouth flabby, the senile mumblings began
again.
Hatch began and concluded negotiations for five gallons of gasolene. A
shrunken shanked old man brought it out in a can, delivered it, and
scuttled back into the house with his safety lantern. Dr. Pollock and
Hatch took their seats again, while The Thinking Machine clambered out
and went round to the back, where he spoke to the chauffeur, who was busy
at the tank. The chauffeur nodded as if he understood, and followed the
scientist to his seat.
"Now for Millen," directed the scientist quietly.
"Millen!" Fairbanks repeated meaninglessly.
The chauffeur twisted his wheel, backed a little, caught the forward
clutch, whirled his car straight to the road again, and shot out through
the darkness. For two or three minutes there was utter silence, save for
the chug and whir of the engine and the clanking rattle of the car; then
The Thinking Machine spoke over his shoulder to Hatch and Dr. Pollock.
"Did either of you notice anything peculiar?" he inquired.
"No," was the simultaneous response. "Why?"
"Mr. Hatch, you have that automobile map," the scientist continued
without heeding the question. "Take this electric light and examine it
once more, to satisfy us that there is no road between the little store
and Millen."
"I know there isn't," Hatch told him.
"Do as I say!" directed the other crabbedly. "We can't afford to make
mistakes."
Obediently enough Hatch and Dr. Pollock studied the map. There was the
road, straight away from the star, to Millen. There was not a bypath or
deviation of any kind marked on it.
"Straight as a string," Hatch announced.
"Now look!" directed The Thinking Machine.
The huge car slowed up and came to a standstill. The glittering lamps of
the car showed two roads instead of one--two roads, here where there were
not two roads! Hatch glared at them for a moment, then fumbled with the
automobile map.
"Why, hang it! there can't be two roads!" he declared.
"But there they are," replied The Thinking Machine.
He felt Fairbanks's hand flutter, and then it was raised suddenly. Again
he threw the light on the pallid face. A strange expression was there; a
set, incredible, vague expression which might have meant anything. The
eyes were turned ahead to where the road was split by a small clump of
trees.
"Keep on to your left," The Thinking Machine directed the chauffeur,
without, however, removing his eyes from the face of the man beside him.
"A little more slowly."
The car started up again and swung off to the left, sharply. Every eye,
save the squint, blue ones of the scientist, was turned ahead; he was
still staring into the face of his patient. His light still showed
realization struggling feebly there. Perhaps only the chauffeur realized
what a steady turn to the left the car made; but he said nothing, only
felt his way along till suddenly the road widened a little where a path
cut through the dense forest, and was lost in the perspective of gloom.
The car slowed up.
"Don't stop!" commanded the scientist sharply. "Go ahead!"
With a sudden spurt the car rushed forward, skimming along easily for a
time, and then the heavy jolting told them all that the road was growing
rougher, and here, dimly ahead of them, they saw an open patch of sky. It
was evidently the edge of the forest. The car went steadily on and out
into the open, clear of the forest; then the chauffeur slowed down.
"There isn't any road here," he remarked.
"Go on!" commanded The Thinking Machine tensely. "Road or no
road--straight ahead!"
The chauffeur took a new grip on his wheel and went straight ahead, over
plowed ground, apparently, for the bumping and jolting were terrific, and
the steering gear tore at the sockets of his arms viciously. For two or
three minutes they proceeded this way, while the scientist's light still
played on Fairbanks's face and the squint eyes unwaveringly watched every
tiny change in it.
"There!" shrieked Fairbanks suddenly, and he came to his feet. "There!"
Hatch and Dr. Pollock saw it at the same instant,--a faint, rosy point in
the distance; The Thinking Machine didn't alter the direction of his
gaze.
"Straight for the light!" he commanded.
...the room showed every evidence of occupancy...log fire was burning, and
its flickering light showed books strewn about here and there...directly
in front of them stood a man, tall, angular, aged, and a little
bent...hands were knotted, toil worn; and the left forefinger was
missing...eyes white and glassy!
With a choking, gutteral exclamation of some sort, Fairbanks darted
forward and placed the grinning god upon the mantel beside a piece of
crystal, then turned back to The Thinking Machine and seized him by the
arm, as a child might have sought protection. The Thinking Machine nodded
at him, and a grin of foolish delight overspread the pallid face.
Meanwhile, the strange old man, who seemed utterly oblivious of their
presence, stood beside the fire gazing into it with sightless eyes. The
scientist moved toward him slowly, Fairbanks staring as if fascinated.
Finally the scientist extended his hand, which held that of Fairbanks,
and touched the old man on the shoulder. He started violently and
stretched out both hands instinctively.
Then, while Hatch and Dr. Pollock looked on silently, The Thinking
Machine stood motionless, while the strange old man's hands ran up his
arm, and the fingers touched his face. The right forefinger paused for an
instant at the eyes, then was laid lightly across the thin lips. It
remained there.
"You are blind?" asked the scientist.
The strange old man nodded.
"You are deaf?"
Again the old man nodded. His forefinger still rested lightly on The
Thinking Machine's lips.
"You are dumb?" the scientist went on.
Again the nod.
"Deafness, dumbness, blindness, result of disease?"
The nod again.
The Thinking Machine turned and lifted Fairbanks's hand till it rested on
the old man's shoulder, then slowly down the arm, while his eyes studied
the changed expression on the pallid face.
"Real, real!" said The Thinking Machine slowly to Fairbanks. "A man--you
understand?"
Fairbanks merely started back; but it was evident that some great
struggle was going on in his mind. There was a growing interest in his
face, the mouth was no longer flabby, the eyes were fixed.
...then there came another sound...a curdling, nerve-racking scream...a
scream of agony, of pain, of fear...a hideous, awful thing...suddenly all
was silent again.
At the first sound Fairbanks straightened up, then slowly he started
forward. Three steps, and he fell. Hatch and Dr. Pollock turned him over
and found on his face an expression of utter, cringing fear. The eyes
were roving, glittering, and he was babbling again. Only his weakness had
prevented flight.
"Stay there!" commanded The Thinking Machine hurriedly, and ran out of
the room.
Hatch heard him as he went up the steps; then after a moment there came
more screams, rather a sharp, intermittent wailing. Fairbanks struggled
feebly, then lay still, flat on his back. A minute more, and The Thinking
Machine reentered the room, leading a woman by the hand--a woman in a
gingham apron and with her hair flying loose about her face. He went
straight to the old man, who had stood motionless through it all, and
raised the toilworn finger to his lips.
"A woman is here--your wife?" he asked.
The old man shook his head.
"Your sister?"
The old man nodded.
"She is insane?"
Again a nod.
The woman stood for an instant with roving eyes, then rushed toward the
mantel with a peculiar sobbing cry. In another instant she had clasped
the ugly ivory image to her withered breast, and was crooning to it
softly as a mother to her babe. Fairbanks raised himself from the floor,
stared at her dully for a moment, then fell back into the arms of Dr.
Pollock and Hatch with a sigh. He had fainted.
"I think, gentlemen, this is all," remarked The Thinking Machine.
It was more than a month later that The Thinking Machine called upon
Harold Fairbanks at his home. The young man was sitting up in bed, weak
but intelligently cognizant of everything about him. There was still an
occasional restless roving of his eyes; but that was all.
"You remember me, Mr. Fairbanks?" began the scientist.
"Yes," was the reply.
"You remember the events of the night we were together?"
"Everything, from the time the automobile left the road and the light
appeared in the distance," said Fairbanks. "I remember seeing the old man
again, and the woman appearing. I know now that he was deaf and dumb and
blind, and that she was insane. That seems to clear the situation a great
deal." He passed a wasted hand across his brow. "But where is the place.
I couldn't find it."
"Listen for just a moment now, please," said The Thinking Machine
soothingly. "You don't remember shooting at your mother? No. Don't excite
yourself; she was not wounded. Immediately after that you were placed in
a sanatorium. I saw you there. The ivory image had been taken away from
you. I went into the room where you were confined and gave it back to
you. It acted as I thought it would,--quieted you. To make certain that
it was this and nothing else that had that effect, I took it away from
you again, and you grew violent--as a matter of fact, your condition was
such that you overturned a heavy table that was bolted to the
floor--broke the bolt. You don't remember that?"
"No."
"I left the image with you. That really was the tangible cause of your
condition. If it hadn't been for that, and the brooding over the mystery
which it constantly caused, the events of that first night would have
passed out of your mind in time. You superinduced self hypnotism with
that little image; that is, you must understand that self hypnotism is
possible to persons of a certain temperament in a mechanical way, when
the object employed is highly polished--shiny, I might say.
"Although that image brought you to the condition you were in, I restored
it to you to quiet you physically. That was necessary before I could
reproduce for you the events of the first night. You went with us in an
automobile, from Pelham to the little store where you had stopped that
first night for gasolene. We stopped there for gasolene, and saw the man
you saw that first night. As a matter of fact, he had gone away only for
a few months, and is now installed in the little store again. This was
all done, you understand, to arouse you, if possible, to what was passing
around you. In a way it succeeded.
"Well, from the little store we went as you went the night of your first
trouble, until we came to the two roads, one leading by sharp turns to
the left. Then we went straight to the farm house where the old man and
the woman were. There I wanted to convince you that they were real
people,--that there was nothing of the ghostly about them. As a matter of
fact, that old man and the woman never knew you were in the house that
night. The man had no means of knowing it so long as you never touched
him nor he you. You say he brought in something to eat. In all
probability that was intended for the woman. You assumed it was for
yourself. The fire which compelled you to jump and which resulted in the
broken ankle for you, did not destroy the house. There were still marks
of it there but the heavy rain extinguished it, and carpenters made the
necessary repairs. Now all that is clear, isn't it?"
"Perfectly," was the reply; "but the white thing in the road--the
screaming I heard there?"
"There is no mystery whatever about that," continued the scientist
calmly. "That road that turns to the left turns more sharply than you
imagine. After a little distance it goes almost parallel with the main
road, so that following it at night you would, without any knowledge of
it, pass within a few hundred feet of a point on the main road. Now the
house where these people live is say five hundred feet from the road that
turns to the left therefore not more than eight hundred feet, we'll say,
from the main road. Thus the screaming you heard in the main road was the
woman who lived in that house; the figure you saw was that woman. Just
why she had left the house and was wandering around through the wood does
not appear; it is certain that she was there, and was frightened by the
storm. I can only say that she might have known she was pursued by you
and taken refuge on an overhanging limb, and thus gave you the impression
of her figure rising above the ground and moving about among the trees.
"It followed naturally that by the time you had taken the roundabout way
with your automobile and reached the house she had reached it by going
straight ahead through the wood--say for eight hundred feet, and again
you heard her screams there. Many things happened in that house that
night of no consequence in themselves, but which to your excited
imagination were mysterious. One of these was the candle going out. It is
obvious that a gust of wind did that, or else a single drop of water from
a leak in the roof. Do you follow me?"
Fairbanks was silent for several minutes as he lay back with his eyes
closed. "But the vital thing, the real thing that bewildered me most of
all," he said slowly, "you haven't touched. That is, Why was it that
after all my searching for the road to the left and the farm house, I
didn't find them, if they were there?"
"Of course you don't remember," explained The Thinking Machine; "but the
night our party went over the route I asked Dr. Pollock and Mr. Hatch
just after we left the little store whether they had noticed anything
peculiar. They replied in the negative. As a matter of fact," and the
scientist was speaking very quietly, "our automobile went the same way
yours had gone--not toward Millen, as you supposed and they supposed, but
back toward Pelham. You didn't find the road to the left and the farm
house when you were searching, for the reason that they were beyond the
little store toward Pelham, eight or ten miles away."
A great wave of relief swept over the young man, and he leaned forward
eagerly. "But wouldn't I have known when I turned the wrong way?" he
demanded.
The Thinking Machine shrugged his shoulders. "You would have known in
daylight, yes," was the reply, "but at night, in a hurry and somewhat
confused by the flying dust, you turned the wrong way--toward Pelham, not
toward Millen. You see that is possible when I tell you that Dr. Pollock
and Mr. Hatch didn't notice that we had turned the wrong way, when there
was no storm, and when I asked them if they had noticed anything
peculiar."
There was a long silence. Fairbanks dropped back in the bed and lay
silent.
"In your manuscript," resumed The Thinking Machine at last, "you
mentioned that you seemed to hear some one calling you as you started
away from the little store. This you attributed vaguely to imagination.
As a matter of fact, you did hear some one call--it was the man who sold
you the gasolene. He knew you intended going to Millen, saw that you had
turned the wrong way, and called to tell you so. You didn't wait to
hear."
And that was all of it.