Mr. Septimus Hellard, an elderly and eminently respectable North Country solicitor, brought down to a West of England town on important business, found that business unexpectedly concluded on the second morning of his visit and himself faced with four spare hours before he could get an express train to London. He was not the sort of man to spend any time in idleness; accordingly, having lunched at his hotel and paid his bill, he inquired of the venerable head waiter if there was anything remarkable in Wilchester which he could go and see. And the head waiter, sizing up the general aspect of his questioner, suggested that Mr. Hellard should cross the market square to the Wilchester and County Museum, an ancient building, which he pointed out from the window of the coffee room.
“The very thing!” exclaimed Mr. Hellard, and immediately set out. The head waiter could have made no better suggestion. Mr. Hellard had all his life been interested in antiquarian and archæological matters; his was the sort of mind that would contentedly spend hours in poring over an old document, and days in an endeavour to decipher an inscription on some moss-grown monument. He accordingly entered the portals of the Wilchester Museum with feelings of pleasurable anticipation, and for the next half hour was absorbed in a general contemplation of the various exhibits. After which, being a man of method, he proceeded to devote himself to his own particular hobby—coins.
There were several cases of coins in that Wilchester Museum, all neatly arranged and set out—gold, silver, bronze—ranging from the earliest times of Roman occupation of this country to the later days of the Stuart period. Mr. Hellard was interested in all of them, but his interest was suddenly transformed into amazement as he stopped before the centre of one case, peered at it for a moment, started violently, and let out a sharp, uncontrollable ejaculation.
“Heaven bless my life and soul!” he exclaimed, careless whether anybody heard him or not. “What do I see? Can I really believe my eyes?”
In order to assure himself that his eyes did not deceive him, Mr. Hellard produced a magnifying glass of strong power from his inner pocket, polished it with his silk handkerchief, and looked, half fearfully, half hopefully, at the exhibit which had raised in him these violent emotions. To most people that exhibit would have seemed a very simple, very ordinary thing. In mere outward appearance it was nothing but a stout card, on which, secured by stout clips, were three old silver coins, each about the size of a modern two shilling piece. They were in remarkably fresh and good condition, the lettering and moulding was sharp and clear, as if they had just come from some mint. And on the bottom half of the card was inscribed in clear, bold handwriting, these lines:
“Fine Set of Famous Sarklestowe Siege Coins.
Lent by F. Paver-Crompton, Esq., F.S.A.”
Mr. Hellard looked through his magnifying glass—once, twice, thrice. Then he put it back in his pocket, took his silk handkerchief out and mopped his forehead.
“Heaven bless me!” he muttered. “’Tis they without a doubt! Extraordinary.”
With that he hurried out of the room and into a lobby in which a caretaker sat toasting his toes by the fire and reading a newspaper.
“I say!” said Mr. Hellard, grappling with his excitement and striving to be calm. “There are some exhibits in there—several, described as being lent by Mr. PaverCrompton. Can you tell me where Mr. Paver-Crompton lives, now? Is it near here? Is it——”
The caretaker arose in silence, laid down his paper, moved heavily to the door, opened it, and beckoned the visitor outside into the market square. He extended a thick forefinger.
“You see that old, red, brick mansion a-standing under them trees where the rooks is a-flying?” he said. “That there is Mr. Paver-Crompton’s residence. Little door in the garden wall, with a small brass plate on it—way into the front entrance. Thank’ee sir.”
Mr. Hellard had pressed a shilling into his informant’s hand, and was half-way along the market square before the caretaker could regain his fire. As he hurried he pulled out his card case; he had a card all ready for the trim parlour-maid, who presently responded to his ring, and he almost cried aloud with joy when he heard that Mr. Paver-Crompton was at home.
Two minutes later Mr. Hellard found himself in Mr. Paver-Crompton’s presence, in a room so filled with folios, octavos, old prints, old curiosities that Mr. PaverCrompton himself, an elderly gentleman of a twinkling eye and pleasant smile, seemed as if he had been taken prisoner there, and would never be able to get out again. Mr. Hellard executed a deep bow; Mr. Paver-Crompton bowed, too, and glanced at his visitor’s card.
“Mr. Hellard?” he said. “And from Sarklestowe? A long way off, and a deeply interesting place. I possess——”
“Sir,” exclaimed Mr. Hellard excitedly, “you possess a set of our famous siege coins, struck in 1647, when our ancient castle was beleaguered. I have just seen them—in your museum. Where, I beg you to tell me—where did you get those coins?”
“Bought ’em!” answered Mr. Paver-Crompton with alacrity. “Last year.”
Mr. Hellard gasped, dropped into the only chair that was not filled with massive tomes or curiosities, and, staring steadily at his host, rubbed his knees.
“Sir,” he said in a low, concentrated voice, “that set of coins is the property of the Sarklestowe Corporation, to which body I am legal adviser. We lost that set— which is almost unique, and, indeed, is unique in one way, for it was the very first set ever struck—some years ago, under the most extraordinary and mysterious circumstances. Which,” he concluded impressively, “have never been explained or accounted for from that day to this.”
Mr. Paver-Crompton reseated himself at his desk and stared at his visitor.
“But,” he said, “how do you know that set’s yours? There are more sets than one in existence. I saw another set sold at Sotheby’s many a year ago, when I was a lad, so——”
“Sir,” answered Mr. Hellard, “I know your set is our set, because each coin bears a very tiny private mark upon it, which I myself placed there some years since. Sir, there is no doubt. Wonderful—wonderful!” exclaimed Mr. Hellard. “That mere accident should have taken me into that museum, and that—”
“Look here!” interrupted Mr. Paver-Crompton, rising and going to a cupboard in the recess of his encumbered library. “Have a glass of my old port and tell me all about this mystery. Was this set—if it is yours, which, of course, I’m not going to grant, you know, just yet—stolen, then?”
Mr. Hellard spread out his hands and shook his head.
“Heaven knows what happened!” he answered. He took the glass which his entertainer handed to him, sipped its contents, murmured his praise of the wine, and returned to the absorbing subject. “I’ll tell you all about it,” he went on. “You’re aware, of course, that when Sarklestowe Castle was besieged by the Parliamentarians, in 1647, the Royalist garrison struck these siege coins in silver. There were three separate coins, each differently worded. They are now extremely scarce, especially in sets. I question if there are four sets known to collectors; there are very few separate examples known. But our Corporation has always had, from the very first, and has most carefully treasured, the first set struck—the set, which, I say, is down your street there. It was always carefully kept in a safe by our town clerk, for the time being—until some eleven years ago—and thereby hangs my tale!”
“Go on with it, my dear sir,” commanded Mr. Paver-Crompton. “Deeply interesting.”
“Eleven years ago,” continued Mr. Hellard, “the town clerk of Sarklestowe was one Mr. Frank Marshfield. He was a smart, rather dashing young fellow, a member of my profession, of course, and of a few years’ experience before he came to us. He did his work excellently; he was, in short, a model town clerk, and everybody thought a great deal of him. And then, all of a sudden, a most distressing and remarkable thing happened.”
“Disappeared with some of the town’s goods and effects, I suppose?” suggested Mr. Paver-Crompton with a grim chuckle.
“It was all very very distressing—and most peculiar,” answered Mr. Hellard. “The circumstances were queer—most queer. I don’t know if you remember it, my dear sir, but just eleven years ago there was an exhibition in London of old Corporation plate. You bear it in mind? Very good. Now, to that exhibition we were invited to lend certain objects—our 14th century mace, our famous loving cup presented to us by Richard III., and one or two other unique and valuable objects. To these we voluntarily added our set of the siege coins—a very handsome exhibit altogether. And, in order to insure their perfect safety, it was arranged that Marshfield himself should take them up to London and hand them over in person. Upon a certain morning—to be precise it was the 7th of December, a very dark, foggy winter day, as I remember very well—Marshfield left his rooms in Spurgate, in our town, carrying his valuable articles in a hand bag, in order to catch the 9 o’clock express to London. He said good-bye to his landlady at her door; he spoke to a couple of well-known townsfolk at the end of Spurgate; he was seen by another credible man of the town to turn the corner of Finkle Gate on his way to the station —and since that moment, my dear sir, Marshfield has never been seen or heard of! At any rate,” added Mr. Hellard with great emphasis, “not by any Sarklestowe people—who would be uncommonly glad to either see or hear of him— uncommonly glad!”
“Ah!” observed Mr. Paver-Crompton knowingly. “Just so! Of course, there was something wrong?”
“I will continue this narrative in order,” replied Mr. Hellard, sipping reflectively at his old port. “The course of events was in this wise: Mr. Alderman Mardill, chairman of our finance committee, was going up to town by that train, and had arranged with Marshfield that they should travel together. When Marshfield did not turn up at the station Mardill left a message for him with the station master, telling Marshfield where to meet him that evening in London—at some hotel or other, you know. Mardill, of course, thought that Marshfield had missed his train and would come on by the next. But the next went without Marshfield, and the afternoon one, too, and so the station master went up to the town to find him. And then, of course, the hue and cry began —and at the end of all these years Marshfield is still missing!”
“Never heard anything?” asked Mr. Paver-Crompton. “Literally anything!”
“Not a word, my dear sir!” answered Mr. Hellard. “The man who saw Marshfield turn the corner of Finkle Gate was the last person who ever set eyes on him in our town. He vanished. It’s most remarkable. From Finkle Gate he had only to pass down the side of the castle and descend a flight of old stone stairs to the station. But nobody saw him. And the theory now is that he just went straight on to a low-lying part of the town, where the fog lay heavy that morning, made his way into the neighbouring woods and went clean away. Odd that no person saw him anywhere, but there were reasons for his flight.”
“Ah!” exclaimed Mr. Paver-Crompton with another grim chuckle. “I thought you’d come to that! Something wrong, of course?”
“Seriously wrong,” admitted Mr. Hellard, shaking his head. “I’m afraid we were very, very lax at Sarklestowe in those days—we know much better now—and we allowed some of our officials, and notably our town clerk, far too much latitude. But, to cut matters short, we found that Marshfield had perpetrated serious defalcations. He had got hold of some valuable securities which have never been heard of since, and he had converted some others into cash. We also discovered that, making the most plausible and satisfactory excuses for doing so, he had been converting bank notes into gold at some of the banks in neighbouring towns. He must have had quite a quantity of gold—a thousand pounds’ worth of gold, anyway, somewhere. So you understand why he vanished!”
“What I don’t understand for one thing,” remarked Mr. Paver-Crompton, “is this: You say he took some valuable securities which have never been heard of since. That implies that, wherever he got to, he never made use of them.”
“Quite so,” assented Mr. Hellard. “He never did. As a matter of fact we eventually regained our rights in them. But they were of such a nature that Marshfield, had he liked, could have converted them into cash in London as soon as he got there. There was nothing to stop him. And it’s a marvellous thing that he didn’t.”
“Um!” remarked Mr. Paver-Crompton. “Well, you say he had the unique set of siege coins with him—my set?”
“He had,” replied Mr. Hellard. “And I am positive, absolutely positive, that your set is our set. I tell you, my dear sir, I marked each coin in that set—I can show you the marks.”
“Then through that set of siege coins you think you can trace something of this man?” asked Mr. Paver-Crompton, eyeing his visitor keenly.
Mr. Hellard threw up his hands.
“Oh, my dear sir,” he said, “I wish you would tell me where, how, when you bought these coins!”
Mr. Paver-Crompton rose and rang the bell. He maintained a thoughtful silence until the trim parlour-maid appeared; then he spoke:
“Mary,” said he, “get my usual portmanteau ready and have a cab called in half an hour. Now, my dear sir,” he went on, when the girl had gone, “I will tell you what I will do. Your homeward way to your far-off northern town lies, of course, through London. I will go to London with you and take you to the man from whom I purchased that set of coins—and, by George, sir, I am so interested that I will stir heaven and earth to solve what’s just as much a mystery to you as it is to me!”
At ten o’clock that night Mr. Paver-Crompton and Mr. Hellard arrived at Paddington. At ten o’clock next morning, arm in arm, they walked out of the Great Western Hotel and chartered a taxicab.
“Drive,” commanded Mr. Paver-Crompton, “to the middle of Mortimer Street.” Mr. Hellard, a stranger to that part of middle London, looked round him with considerable curiosity when he and his companion left their vehicle and walked a little way along a street, which, to Mr. Hellard’s eyes, seemed remarkably cosmopolitan. He was staring at the French names, the Italian names, the Jewish names, the antique shops, the old furniture and odds-and-ends shops, when Mr. Paver-Crompton touched his elbow and pointed him to a small brass plate very much in need of polish, which stood on the lintel of a shabby-looking door at the side of what was a tenement house. Upon this plate appeared the words: Mr. Issachar, Antiques.
“’Cutest man in London in his line,” observed Mr. Paver-Crompton as he and his companion began to make their way up a very dirty staircase. “And, I always think, the biggest antique and curiosity in his collection. Never mind the grime and cobwebs, my dear sir—but take care of your neck coming down.”
There was still a long way to climb. At its end Mr. Paver-Crompton pushed open a door of what was evidently an attic, and ushered Mr. Hellard into the midst of an assemblage of venerable things which at any other moment would have completely absorbed his attention. But for that time his attention was at once concentrated on an old man, hook-nosed, skull-capped, long-bearded, who, clad in a nondescript garment, which covered him from head to foot, rose from a desk set in the midst of his accumulations and came forward with a deep bow.
“Well, Mr. Issachar,” said Mr. Paver-Crompton cheerily, “here I am again, you see. But not to buy this time—merely to ask a little question. The fact is,” he went on, tapping the old dealer’s shoulder confidentially, “I want you to tell me something. You remember selling me that set of Sarklestowe siege coins and assuring me that you knew that they had recently been dug up in the neighbourhood of Sarklestowe Castle?”
“I assured you of what I myself was assured, sir,” answered Mr. Issachar, who was rubbing his hands as he blinked at his visitors through a pair of big spectacles. “What I told you I should be told by the person from whom I bought.”
“That’s just it, sir,” said Mr. Paver-Crompton. “Now, from whom did you buy? I’m particularly anxious to know. And—do you think the person who sold was a principal or an agent? It’s important.” “An agent, sir,” replied Mr. Issachar. “Otherwise I could not have imparted any information. I make it a strict rule never to divulge the names of principals in any of my transactions—it would be against my interests. But this man was certainly an agent.”
“Ay, and who is he and where is he to be found?” demanded Mr. PaverCrompton eagerly. “I want to find him at once.”
“I only know him by a sort of nick-name,” answered the dealer. “He is known to our trade as Snuffy—Snuffy of Towler’s Rents. I never knew him by any other name.”
“Am I to hunt London for a man called Snuffy of Towler’s Rents?” exclaimed Mr. Paver-Crompton. “Why——”
“Not at all, sir,” said Mr. Issachar. “Towler’s Rents is a side street or alley, off Holborn; this man Snuffy keeps a curiosity shop there. You will easily find him. But,” he added with a sly look, “whether you will get any information from him is another matter. And now, sir, allow me to draw your kind attention to this truly remarkable and interesting Louis Quatorze snuff box, which——”
Mr. Paver-Crompton fled temptation—for that moment—and carefully piloted
Mr. Hellard downstairs again and into another cab.
“Snuffy of Towler’s Rents,” he exclaimed as they sped along. “What a name, and probably what a place! And to think that such priceless antiquities pass through such hands and are haggled in such places.”
Towler’s Rents, duly arrived at, was certainly not the sort of locality in which the unthinking would expect to find objects of vertu. It was a narrow alley running out of Holborn in the direction of Bedford Row; there was just room in it for Mr. PaverCrompton and Mr. Hellard to walk abreast; even then their elbows almost jostled the queer old windows of the dirty shops and half-wood house fronts on either side of them. One of the dirtiest of these windows contained some terribly dusty but good antiques, and Mr. Paver-Crompton paused and tried the door.
“This is our man, I’ll be bound,” he said. “And hang it all, the door’s fast.” A slatternly woman looked out of the opposite house and caught Mr. Hellard’s eye.
“’E ain’t in,” she said, “Never is in at this time o’ day. But if yer wants to know where ’e is, ’e’s in the Partridge and Pelican, up there—that pub. Goes in there every morning reg’lar for a drop o’ rum.”
The two searchers glanced at the exterior of the Partridge and Pelican and then at each other. It was not the sort of place that broadcloth coats and silk hats could enter—without great loss of dignity.
“My very good woman,” said Mr. Hellard, extracting a shilling from his pocket and dropping it gingerly into the ready hand extended to receive it, “we are in search of a person named Snuffy. If he is the man you refer to, will you have the goodness to fetch him to us? Tell him—er—”
“Tell him we want to see him about some of his old things,” said Mr. PaverCrompton.
The woman hurried towards the Partridge and Pelican and disappeared within one of its doors. And from the door presently emerged a man who was much more curious to look upon than Mr. Issachar—a tall, burly, paunchy man, whose bulk was tightly enveloped in a greasy fronted frock coat, the sleeves of which were much too short and the lapels of which were liberally ornamented with snuff, who was disreputable and unholy to look at, whose face was inflamed with spirits and whose eyes, small and pig-like, were crafty and suspicious. He rolled himself down the alley and touched the frayed brim of a doleful hat to the two strangers, whom he was
evidently sizing up.
“Servant, gentlemen,” he said. “Is there aught I can have the pleasure of showing you this morning? Some nice Chippendale and extra good Sheraton——” 
“You’re a Yorkshireman,” incautiously remarked Mr. Hellard, thrown off his mental guard. “I know that by your accent.”
Snuffy, of Towler’s Rents, turned as he opened his shop door, and he threw a not too pleased glance at the speaker.
“It’s a long time since I saw Yorkshire,” he growled. “And what if I am Yorkshire?”
“Oh, nothing, my friend!” answered Mr. Hellard, as they followed him into the shop. “I merely remarked that you were—I’m one myself, for that matter.” 
“And it’s about a Yorkshire matter that we’ve come to see you,” said Mr. Paver-Crompton. “Mr. Issachar directed us to you. The fact is—and we’ll make it worth your while to give any information you can—we want to know something, that you, no doubt, can tell us. Do you remember selling a set of Sarklestowe siege coins to Mr. Issachar of Mortimer Street some little time ago?”
Mr. Hellard, who was watching his fellow Yorkshireman’s face with all the keenness of the legal observer, saw a faint twitch pass over Snuffy’s unlovely features. He also saw a deepening of the gleam of suspicion which had been in the man’s eyes ever since his north country origin had been suggested to him. And when he replied, an added suspicion made itself manifest in his tones.
“Well, and what then?” he demanded.
“We want to know if you can tell us where, how and when you got those coins,”
answered Mr. Paver-Crompton. “And if you’ll tell us, we’ll give you——” 
“Ahem,” interrupted Mr. Hellard, with a deprecatory cough and a jog at his companion’s elbow. “My dear sir—I—do not let us be in too much haste to offer pecuniary reward,” he whispered. “Let us hear first if—eh?”
Snuffy, of Towler’s Rents, had made no answer, and he betrayed no consciousness of Mr. Hellard’s interruption. He rolled silently away amongst the litter of his untidy shop until he came to a desk in the corner, from which he extracted a dirty, much-thumbed ledger, the leaves of which he began to turn over with his clawlike fingers.
“Don’t remember naught particular about ’em,” he growled. “Might have
summat set down here as would remind me. Siege coins, eh? How many of ’em now?”
“A set of three,” replied Mr. Paver-Crompton. “Come now, you can’t have
forgotten a transaction like that! Why, you must know they’re famous!” Snuffy suddenly closed his book with a bang and looked up with a readiness which struck Mr. Hellard as being a piece of acting.
“Ay, I remember ’em now!” he exclaimed. “No, I don’t know as they were
famous—not so much in my line, you know. If I had known it I’d ha’ made that old Jew pay more for ’em.”
“What did he pay you then?” asked Mr. Paver-Crompton, who knew very well what a substantial cheque he had drawn for Mr. Issachar in this transaction. “How much, now?”
But Snuffy eyed his questioner sourly and shook his head.
“That’s my business—and his,” he growled. “’Tain’t yours, mister. Well, now, where did I get ’em? How much are you going to give for the information?” Mr. Paver-Crompton turned to his companion. And Mr. Hellard thought it time to assert himself. “I think we’d better speak plainly,” he said. “I may as well tell you, my friend,” he went on, addressing the old dealer, “that these coins were abstracted from the possession of the Sarklestowe Corporation, to which I am solicitor. I——” 
“Ay, I thought you were summat o’ that sort,” interrupted Snuffy. “Ye look it!
Well, but I know naught o’ that. All I know is that them coins were brought to me and that I bought ’em. Gi’ me a fiver and I’ll tell you all I know.”
“No,” said Mr. Hellard, “certainly not!”
Snuffy threw his memorandum book into the open desk and banged the lid. “Then I shall say naught and ye can get out o’ my shop!” he said. “I’ve naught to do wi’t t’ matter.”
“We’ll see about that,” said Mr. Hellard. “This is a serious affair and you’ll be made to give evidence.”
“My dear friend,” whispered Mr. Paver-Crompton, who had his hand in his pocket. “Allow me!—a little judicious expenditure, you know——” 
“Make it a couple o’ quid, then,” growled Snuffy. “Not a ha’penny less!” Mr. Hellard protested, but there was an exchange of coins between his
companion and the old dealer, who pocketed his gains and sneered openly at the solicitor.
“Well,” he said, “all I can tell you is this here—them coins was brought to me at a time when I had a dish full o’ such like things in the window. A chap brought ’em and wanted to know if I’d buy ’em. So I bought ’em. And that’s all!” He grinned maliciously at Mr. Hellard, but Mr. Hellard shook his head. “No,” he said, “you know a lot more than that, my friend. Who was this man? What was his name?”
“D’ye think I ask my customers’ names?” roared Snuffy. “Know naught about the man’s name.”
“What sort of man was he, at any rate?” persisted Mr. Hellard. “You know that!”
“Working sort o’ fellow—gardener or summat o’ that sort,” growled the old man. “Said he were up in London on a holiday and that he’d dug them coins up in an orchard. Now then!”
“Where?” demanded Mr. Hellard. “At Sarklestowe?”
“Where else?” retorted Snuffy. “And that’s all I know. And now away wi’ you both, ’cause that’s all I know and I want to lock up and go to my dinner. Ye’ll get no more out of me!”
Mr. Hellard touched his companion’s arm and they withdrew into Towler’s
Rents and went away talking in confidential whispers. As for the old man they left behind them, he watched their disappearing figures until they had merged with the crowds in Holborn. Then he locked the shop door, rolled swiftly into Holborn himself, looked up and down, saw his two visitors cross the street and walk slowly westward, whereupon, with a grim chuckle, he turned away and made for the nearest telegraph office.
Mr. Hellard and Mr. Paver-Crompton went along in deep confabulation. Now and then so engrossed were they that they mutually paused, to the annoyance of other passengers on the sidewalk, who first ran into and then grabbed at them.
“This will never do,” said Mr. Hellard, when a man carrying a heavy parcel had cursed them openly; “we are making ourselves a public nuisance.” He looked up and around and noticed the Holborn Restaurant. “Let us go in there,” he said. “It is almost time for lunch and we can sit down and converse quietly. My dear sir,” he went on, when they had found a quiet corner and ordered their chops, “that man, I am confident, is deceiving us. He knows much more than he told us. And—most significant—he’s a Yorkshireman.”
“Why significant?” asked Mr. Paver-Crompton.
“Isn’t Sarklestowe in Yorkshire?” replied Mr. Hellard. “Ah, my dear sir, as soon as I heard that man’s voice I began to suspect something. How do we know that he hasn’t had dealing with someone in Sarklestowe—that he isn’t in touch with someone there—hasn’t been there himself of late years? Certainly, I don’t remember ever seeing the man there, but, small town as it is, he might have been there without my knowledge. I wish I knew that man’s name.”
“That ought not to be a difficult matter to discover,” observed Mr. PaverCrompton, with a commendable touch of worldly wisdom. “He lives in Towler’s Rents. He’s a furniture dealer. Surely his name will be in a trades directory. They’ll have such a thing here, waiter!”
The waiter presently produced a London street directory, and Mr. PaverCrompton, adjusting his glasses, began to turn over its pages. Before long he clapped his finger to an entry.
“There you are, that’ll be the man—only furniture and curiosity shop in Towler’s Rents, d’you see?” he exclaimed. “Thomas Capstick.”
Mr. Hellard who was bending eagerly forward from the other side of the small table at which the two gentlemen sat, jumped up with such energy that the waiter, standing directly near, was obliged to spring forward to save the glass and china.
“Capstick!” exclaimed Mr. Hellard. “Capstick! You don’t mean it! Capstick! Heaven bless my heart and soul. My dear sir, we must go to Sarklestowe at once— this instant!”
“No, a bit later,” promptly responded Mr. Paver-Crompton. “The chops first, I think, my good friend. Now, why this eagerness?”
Mr. Hellard gave one more glance at the directory and relapsed into his chair again.
“Capstick! by all that’s wonderful!” he groaned. “Capstick! Why, that’s the name of the woman who acts as caretaker of Sarklestowe Castle. She lives in the old Barbican—ruined, of course. She has rooms in it. My dear sir, this Snuffy individual must be her relation.”
“I daresay we’re getting at something,” said Mr. Paver-Crompton. “And since we’ve learned this much, we’ll go around to Towler’s Rents and see the old sinner again. Then you must plump him straight out with two questions: Is the woman at Sarklestowe Castle his relative? Did he get these siege coins from her? That’ll be a stage further. In the meantime—waiter, hand me your wine list.”
Fortified in body and more alert than ever in mind, Mr. Hellard and Mr. PaverCrompton retraced their steps to Towler’s Rents, but the dirty and frowsy shop was securely locked up and Thomas Capstick was not to be seen. Once more the woman who lived opposite thrust herself out of her doorway.
“’E’s gone awye, has old Snuffy,” she said. “’E come back soon after you was gone down the Rents and he set off hisself wiv a bag and ’e said to me, ’e said as ’ow he was going to the country on business and if anybody came a-wanting of ’im ’e’d be awye a week or more. Which ’e often goes awye like that.”
The searchers after Snuffy of Towler’s Rents went away into Holborn again, took a cab and drove back to their hotel.
“The question is,” said Mr. Hellard meditatively, as they drove along—“the question is, has that old scoundrel—for I am convinced that he is an old scoundrel— set off for Sarklestowe?”
Mr. Paver-Crompton chuckled.
“No, no, my good friend!” he said. “Pardon me, that is not the question. The immediate question is what time can we ourselves get a train to your historic town? For what we want to do now—knowing what we do—is to betake ourselves to Sarklestowe as quickly as steam can propel us.”
“You mean to see Mary Anne Capstick?” asked Mr. Hellard.
“Mary Anne, or Mary Jane, certainly,” assented Mr. Paver-Crompton. “She is, in my opinion, the next link.”
“Soon answer that question,” said Mr. Hellard. “There’s a splendid train from King’s Cross at three-fifteen.”
“Then we’ll catch it and get down there,” responded Mr. Paver-Crompton. “For there I am sure is the source of the stream we are trying to trace.”
Eight o’clock that evening saw Mr. Hellard and his companion breathing the keen air of the wind-swept moorlands, over which the great Norman keep of Sarklestowe Castle still stands watch. They glanced at its mighty bulk as they walked through the darkness towards it.
“I suppose we’d better go straight to the Barbican?” asked Mr. Hellard. “A direct question unexpectedly put, eh?”
“Excellent!” agreed Mr. Paver-Crompton, “and if I may suggest what the question should be, I should advise you as soon as this woman opens the door to us to plump her with a plain inquiry, devoid of any preface, such as, ‘Now, Mrs. Capstick, do you know of one Thomas Capstick, of Towler’s Rents, in London?’”
“Good!” murmured Mr. Hellard, “I will.”
But for the second time since noon Mr. Hellard and his companion found a door locked against them. The old Barbican, transformed into a dwelling-house of two or three rooms, was in darkness; not a gleam of candle or of fire came through its diamond-pane windows. Mr. Hellard thumped loudly at the door; no answer came. But the door of a cottage close by presently opened and a man came out.
“John Green—a worthy fellow!” whispered Mr. Hellard, advancing towards the man. “Good evening, John, do you know where Mrs. Capstick is? She hasn’t gone to bed at this hour, surely?”
John Green turned and looked back into the cottage, calling to his wife. That good woman came bustling out.
“Oh, it’s Mestur Hellard, is it?” she said in broad Yorkshire. “Why, sir, Missis Capstick, she went away this forenoon. She’s gone to Kettleby to see their ’Lizer— she’s badly. She went at eleven o’clock did Mrs. Capstick, to catch t’ train, and about two hours after she were gone, there wor a tallygraft come for her—t’ tallygraft lad left it wi’ me. An’ as she’d left her door key wi’ me I put t’ tallygraft on her table—I thowt, happen, it wor to say their Lizer wor dead. But, of course, I don’t know.”
“Oh, she left her key with you, did she?” remarked Mr. Hellard, nudging his companion in the darkness. “Well, now, there’s something I want out of the Barbican house, so just give me that key, will you, Mrs. Green? By the bye, did Mrs. Capstick say whether she’d return to-night?”
Mrs. Green stepped back within her cottage, took down a key from a nail and handed it over.
“She said she might, and she might not, sir,” she replied, “It all depended on how their ’Lizer wor. If she found her right bad, she said she’d stop all t’ night theer.”
Mr. Hellard opened Mrs. Capstick’s door, let his visitor within, closed the door and struck a match. A candle stood in its stick on the centre of the table in the little room they had entered, and close by lay the buff envelope of the telegram. Mr. Hellard looked at it and then at Mr. Paver-Crompton.
“My dear sir,” he murmured, with the half sinister expression of the conspirator, “I—the fact is, I’m going to open that telegram!”
Mr. Paver-Crompton nodded acquiescence.
“Precisely what I should do myself, under the circumstances,” he said, “for in my opinion that wire is not from ’Lizer, but from London!”
Mr. Hellard’s fingers trembled a little as he slowly opened the buff envelope. He gave one quick glance at the message, and then, with something between a groan and an exclamation of relief, handed the flimsy paper to his companion.
“You’re right,” he said. “It is from London, and from that hoary old trickster.”
Mr. Paver-Crompton slowly read out the message:
“Mrs. Capstick, Barbican Cottage, Sarklestowe: Hellard here this morning. You had better go away at once.—COUSINTOM.”
“Handed in at twelve-fifty,” said Mr. Paver-Crompton musingly. “Just after we left him, eh? But the woman across there said that Mrs. Capstick went away at eleven, and never got this wire?”
“A fortunate circumstance,” remarked Mr. Hellard. “She’ll come back—all unsuspecting. Well, my dear sir, what do you think?”
“Plain enough,” replied Mr. Paver-Crompton. “There’s no doubt whatever that the man Snuffy got those coins from this woman. But—where did she get them? And what does she know about—Marshfield?”
For a moment the two gentlemen stared at each other, a question in the eyes of each. A heavy step outside startled them, and Mr. Hellard tip-toed to the door and cautiously looked out.
“One of our constables,” he whispered. “A thoroughly reliable man—we’ll have him in; he may be useful.”
The policeman duly summoned into the cottage, stared at Mr. Hellard with amazed eyes.
“Anything wrong, sir?” he asked, looking from one to the other, and then glancing round as if he missed something. “Aught about Mother Capstick?”
“There may be a good deal wrong, Johnson,” answered Mr. Hellard gravely. “We don’t know yet,” he turned to Mr. Paver-Crompton. “Would it be any good to make a sort of preliminary search now?” he suggested. “There might be some indication——”
Mr. Paver-Crompton shook his head. He was about to express the opinion that measures of that sort would not be of much use at that stage, when the policeman, who had sharp ears, turned to the door, looked out, and closed it again. “There’s Mrs. Capstick a-coming along now,” he said. “She’s close at hand, sir.” Mr. Hellard’s strategy developed itself.
“Stand back there, Paver-Crompton,” he said sharply. “Get into that corner, Johnson—put yourself behind the door. Get between her and the door, once she enters. Now then.”
A moment of breathless suspense; then the door was pushed open, and a big, elderly, raw-boned woman entered; behind her appeared the wondering faces of Green and his wife. It seemed to the watchers, from a strong scent of spirits which came in with her, that Mrs. Capstick had been drinking a little, and the eye which she turned on Mr. Hellard was distinctly fiery and aggressive.
“Now then, Mr. Hellard,” she demanded loudly, “what right have you to get my key and walk into my house, I would like to know? Poor folk’s houses is as good as rich folks, and I’ll not be put on by you nor nobody, let me tell you that, Mr. Hellard! What right——”
At that moment Mrs. Capstick’s eloquence was cut short by a sight of the policeman, who, at a signal from Mr. Hellard waved the Greens away, shut the door, and placed himself against it. Mrs. Capstick suddenly caught her breath, glanced from one to the other of her visitors, and collapsed into a chair.
“Oh, what is it?” she exclaimed, with a curious drop from the indignant to the frightened. “What—”
“Now, Mrs. Capstick,” said Mr. Hellard firmly, “you’ve got to tell the truth. We know more than you think. Come, now, where did you get those things you sold to your cousin, Thomas Capstick, in London? Out with it, now.”
It was a shot made at a venture, but the watchers saw that it went home. And Mr. Hellard drove it further in by waving the telegram.
“Come now,” he went on, in his sternest manner. “It’s useless to keep anything back. You got those things—and more—from Mr. Marshfield years ago! Tell the truth about it—and about him. You’ve got a secret, and we’ll have it out of you, if we have to pull every stone and stick of this old Barbican to pieces! So come on!”
Mrs. Capstick had begun to moan and sob, rocking herself to and fro in the chair into which she had dropped. Her eye went to a black bottle which stood flanked by a glass on a chiffonier.
“For mercy’s sake gi’ me a taste o’ that!” she moaned. “I’m fair upset, and my heart’s bad! Gi’ me a drop, you Johnson, and I’ll tell you the truth, gentlemen, and be done with it—it’s been a sore weight this many a year.”
“Give her what she wants,” commanded Mr. Hellard. He watched his prisoner sip and sip again, until the colour came back into her cheeks.
“Now, then, no nonsense,” he said. “Tell me the whole truth.”
Mrs. Capstick untied the strings of her bonnet and sighed deeply.
“I’ve allus been afraid it ’ud come out,” she moaned. “I allus said so to Cousin Thomas, but he would have it ’at it were a safe thing. Well, it’s like this, Mr. Hellard. It were when Marshfield, as you’ve just mentioned, disappeared. It was a very foggy morning, that—which made it all t’ easier what happened. My Cousin Thomas were stopping a few days wi’ me, and him and me had just finished our breakfasts, when there came a tap at the door, and it opened, and Marshfield looked in—that white and queer i’ face ’at we jumped to our feet. ‘For heaven’s sake, Mrs. Capstick,’ he says ‘let me sit down a minute and get me summat—I’m overcome,’ he says. ‘I’ve been hurrying to t’ station, and my heart’s affected—I’m done,’ he says. An’ he staggered in, dropping a bag ’at he carried, and then fell into that theer chair. An’ I rushed one way for summat, and my Cousin Thomas he rushed for a drop of sperrits ’at were in that cupboard, but afore we could do owt, Marshfield he gev’ a queer groan and he went.”
“Died!” exclaimed Mr. Hellard.
“He was dead as a doornail when we touched him,” solemnly asserted Mrs. Capstick. “May I never bite nor sup again if he worn’t dead! We knew that as soon as we touched his hand. And, of course, I were for running for help and a doctor. But as you know, Mr. Hellard, there wasn’t a house nor a cottage near the old place at that time—they’ve all been built since—so there was no neighbours to call. And Thomas, he stopped me. ‘Doctors is no use for dead men,’ he says. ‘Bide a bit and let me see what he has in that theer bag.’ And, of course, Thomas did what he pleased. He opened t’ bag, and theer was a lot o’ gold money in it, and some papers, and them Corporation things ’at were afterwards reported as missing. And when he saw that, my Cousin Thomas fastened t’ door and made me help him to carry t’ body into that inner room theer. And later on in t’ day he went out and made some inquiry in t’ town, cautious like, you know, Mr. Hellard, and he came back and said to me ’at nobody ’ud never know ought about it, for theer wern’t a soul i’ t’ place ’at had any idea ’at Marshfield had ever come near t’ Barbican, and they were already saying ’at he’d fled t’ town altogether. And so—well, we agreed ’at we’d stick to t’ gold for ourselves. Thomas, he took charge of it, and carried it away to London wi’ him and t’ rest o’ t’ things, too—all excepting some papers ’at were in t’ bag. An’ them papers——”
Mrs. Capstick paused and looked fearfully at her audience.
“Them papers,” she went on at last in a hushed voice, “is wi’ t’ body. And t’ body’s safe buried in one o’ t’ owd cellars down t’ bottom o’ them stairs. An’ Lord ha’ mercy, I’ve thowt many a time ’at I heerd Marshfield walking up them stairs i’ t’ dead o’ night, but I knew it wor fancy, ’cause we niver laid a finger on him. An’— that’s all. Mr. Hellard—what about my Cousin Thomas?”
Mr. Hellard looked grimly at his two companions before he turned to Mrs. Capstick.
“I hope we shall get your Cousin Thomas as easily as we’ve got you, my woman,” he answered. “Bring Mrs. Capstick up to the police station, Johnson, and we’ll get to work.”