Etherington, manager of the Old Bank at Leytonsdale, in Northshire, was in the first week of his annual month’s holiday, and he was celebrating his freedom from the ordinary routine of life by staying in bed an hour longer than usual every morning. Consequently, on this particular—and as fate would have it, eventful—morning, it was 10 o’clock when he came down to breakfast in the coffee-room of the Grand Hotel at Scarborough, in which place he meant to stay a fortnight before going on for a similar period to Whitby. It would not have mattered to him if the hands of the clock had pointed to 11, for he had no plans for the day. His notion of a perfect holiday was to avoid plans of any sort, and to let things come. And something quite unexpected was coming to him at that moment—the hall-porter followed him into the room with a telegram.
“For you, sir,” he said. “Come this very minute.” Etherington took the envelope and carried it to his usual seat near the window. He gave his order for breakfast before he opened it, but all the time he was talking to the waiter he was wondering what the message was about. He was a bachelor— his mother and sister who lived with him were such excellent administrators that he scouted the idea of any domestic catastrophe; neither of the two would have dreamed of bothering him for anything less than a fire or an explosion. His undermanager, Swale, was a thoroughly capable man, and all was in order at the bank, and likely to be so. Nor could he think of anyone who could have reason to wire him about business outside the bank affairs, nor about pleasure, nor about engagements. But just then the waiter retired, and Etherington opened the buff envelope, unfolded the flimsy sheet within, and read the message in one glance.
“Swale found shot on Blind Gap Moor at 6 o’clock this morning. Believed to be a case of murder. Police would like you to return. Please wire time arrival.—Lever.”
It was characteristic of Etherington, always a calm, self-possessed man, that he folded up the message, put it carefully in his pocketbook, and ate steadily through his substantial breakfast before asking the waiter to get him a railway time-table. But he was thinking all the time he ate and drank.
Murder? who would wish to murder Swale? He mentally figured Swale—a quiet, inoffensive fellow of thirty, who had been in the service of the Leytonsdale Old Bank ever since his schooldays, and had lived the life of a mouse. And what could have taken Swale, a man of fixed habits, to a wild, desolate spot like Blind Gap Moor before 6 o’clock of a May morning? He knew Swale and his habits very well and he had never heard that the sub-manager was fond of getting up to see the sun rise—and yet Blind Gap Moor was a good hour’s walk from the town. Perhaps he had been shot during the night, or during the previous evening—in that case, what was he doing there? For Swale was not a fellow to take long, country walks—he was a bookworm, a bit of a scribbler, in an amateur fashion, given to writing essays and papers on the antiquities of the town, and he accordingly liked to spend his evenings and burn the midnight oil at home. Odd—the whole thing! But—murder? That was a serious business, murder! Still, no one who ever knew Swale would ever have dreamed of connecting him with suicide.
As for himself, he must act. He beckoned the head waiter to his side with a nod.
“You’ll have to get me my bill,” he said. “I am called home—unexpectedly. But first—a railway guide and a telegram form.”
It was a long journey across country to Leytonsdale, involving three changes and two tedious waitings for connections, and 5 o’clock had struck before Etherington got out of the branch train at the little station of his small market town. Lever, the junior clerk who had wired to him that morning, was awaiting him; together they walked out into the road which led to the centre of the place.
“Well?” asked Etherington, in his usual, laconic fashion. “Anything fresh since morning?”
“Nothing,” replied Lever. “But the police are now certain it’s a case of murder; they say there’s no doubt about it.”
“Give me the facts,” said the manager. “Bare facts.”
“One of Lord Selwater’s gamekeepers found him,” answered the clerk. “Just before six this morning. He was lying dead near that cairn of stones on the top of Blind Gap Moor—shot through the heart. The doctors say he would die at once, and that he was shot at close quarters. And—he’d been robbed.”
Etherington made a little sound which denoted incredulity.
“Robbed!” he exclaimed. “Bless me! Why, what could Swale have on him that would make anybody go to the length of murder?”
“His watch and chain were gone,” began Lever, “and——”
“Worth three pounds at the outside!” interrupted Etherington.
“Yes; but he’d a lot of money on him,” proceeded the clerk. “It turns out that for this last year or two he’s collected the rents for those two farms up on the moor— Low Flatts and Quarry Hill. He’d been there last night. Marshall, the farmer at Low Flatts, says he paid him £56; Thomson, at Quarry Hill, paid him £48. So he’d have over £100 on him.”
“All missing?” asked the manager.
“There wasn’t anything on him but some coppers,” replied Lever. “Watch, chain, purse, pocketbook—all gone. That ring, that he used to wear, was gone.”
“How had those men paid him?” asked Etherington. “Cheque or cash?”
“Notes and gold,” answered Lever.
The manager walked on in silence for a while. Certainly this seemed like murder preceding robbery.
“Do they suspect anybody?” he asked. Lever shook his head.
“They haven’t said so to me if they do,” he replied. “The superintendent wants to see you at once.”
Etherington went straight to the police station. The superintendent shook his grizzled head at the sight of him.
“Bad business this, Mr. Etherington,” he said as the manager sat down. “First murder case we’ve had in my thirty years’ experience of this district.”
“Are you sure it’s murder?” asked Etherington quietly.
“What else?” demanded the superintendent. “If it had been suicide the revolver that killed him would have been lying close by. No, sir—it’s murder! And we haven’t the shadow of a clue.”
“I’ve heard the main facts from our clerk, Lever,” remarked Etherington. “Is there anything you haven’t told him?”
“There’s precious little to tell, Mr. Etherington,” answered the superintendent. “I’ve got at everything connected with his doings yesterday. He was at the bank all day, as usual. Nothing happened out of the common, according to your staff. He left the bank at 5 o’clock and went home to his lodgings. All was as usual there. His landlady says he had his dinner at 6 o’clock—just as usual. He went out at 7— didn’t say anything. He called on Matthew Marshall at Low Flatts Farm at a quarter past 8. Marshall paid him half a year’s rent. He was at James Thomson’s, at Quarry Hill, just before 9; Thomson paid him a half year’s rent, too. He stopped talking a bit with Thomson, and left there about 9.20. Thomson walked out to his gate with him, and saw him strike across the moor; it was getting darkish by that time, of course, but he saw him going towards that old cairn, near which he was found this morning. There was naught on him—he’d been robbed as well as murdered, sir.”
“How far,” asked Etherington, “is this place where he was found from these two farms?”
“A good mile from Quarry Hill—mile and a half from Low Flatts,” replied the superintendent.
“Everything is very quiet on those moors at night,” observed Etherington. “Did no one hear the sound of a shot?”
“I thought of that and inquired into it,” answered the superintendent. “Nobody heard any shot. If somebody had heard a shot, you know, they’d only have thought it was one of Lord Selwater’s keepers shooting at something. But so far I’ve heard of nobody who noticed aught of that sort. You see, except those two farms, there isn’t a house on that part of the moors.”
“There’s Mr. Charlesworth’s place—up above that cairn,” suggested Etherington.
“Ay, but it’s over the brow of the hill,” said the superintendent. “That ’ud prevent the sound being heard there. I called at Charlesworth’s; they’d heard nothing.”
“Any suspicious characters about?” asked Etherington.
“My men haven’t heard of any,” answered the superintendent. “There were some gypsies in the neighbourhood a fortnight ago, but they cleared out.”
“Poachers, now?” suggested the manager. “There are men in this town who poach on those moors.”
“Just so. But we’ve no reason to suspect any particular one of ’em,” said the superintendent. “I know of two men who do go up there after what they can get, but I’ve found out they were both safe in the town all yesterday evening and last night. No, sir, I think the whole thing’ll go deeper than that.”
“How?” asked Etherington.
“Somebody must have known Mr. Swale was going to collect those rents last night,” said the superintendent meaningly. “He was laid in wait for. And yet, so far as I can make out, there wasn’t a soul knew he collected them except Marshall and Thomson.”
“I didn’t know,” remarked Etherington.
“Just so. According to the two farmers he’s collected them ever since old Mr. Sellers died,” continued the superintendent. “Those farms belong to Mrs. Hodgson, a London lady. Now, if somebody had got to know that Mr. Swale would have £100 in cash after he’d been to these farms last night—eh?”
“You don’t suspect either of the two farmers?” asked the manager.
The superintendent shook his head firmly.
“No, sir; both decent, honest, straightforward fellows,” he replied. “Oh, no! No, it’s a deeper job than that, Mr. Etherington.”
Etherington rose to go. After all, in this particular matter he could do nothing.
“Of course, there’ll be an inquest?” he asked.
“To-morrow, at 10,” answered the superintendent. “But, beyond what I’ve told you we’ve no evidence. It’ll be a case of ‘Wilful murder against some person or persons unknown,’ you know, unless something comes out, and where it is to come from I don’t know.”
Nor did Etherington know, and he said so and went away. And after he had dined with his mother and sister, and discussed with them the tragic affair which had interrupted his holiday, he took his walking stick and set off out of town to the scene of the murder. And there, in the gathering dusk, he met Charlesworth, the man who lived at an old house called Hill Rise, on the edge of the moor, well above the cairn near which Swale’s body had been found. Etherington knew Charlesworth well; he was an old customer of the bank, a man who did a big trade in timber. He was evidently on his way home at that moment, and was glancing inquisitively at the cairn when Etherington came up.
“Nothing to see,” he remarked, as the manager advanced. “They were looking for footmarks all day, but they found none. The grass is too close and wiry for that.”
“I didn’t expect to see anything,” said Etherington. “It’s some years since I was up this way. I came now to look around, to try to make out how it was nobody heard that shot last night. I understand nothing was heard at your place?”
Charlesworth, a big, athletic man, turned and pointed to the top of the moor above him.
“My place is just three-quarters of a mile over there,” he answered. “There’s all this rise between it and us, and a thickish belt of wood between, too. We couldn’t hear a pistol shot from here. We heard nothing.”
“What about those farms?” asked the manager.
Charlesworth pointed in another direction.
“You can’t see Low Flatts,” he said. “It’s down in that hollow yonder. And you can only see a chimney of Quarry Hill—that’s it, peeping up behind that line in the moor. They’d hear nothing. It’s an easy thing to try, as I told the police. Whoever killed Swale selected a good place. It isn’t once in a month there’s anybody about here o’ nights—at this time of the year.”
Etherington made no answer for the moment. He stood staring about him in the fast-gathering dusk. A wild and lonely place, indeed! Miles upon miles of ling and heather, and, beyond the chimney of Quarry Hill Farm, not a sign of human habitation.
“I wonder who did kill him?” he muttered absent-mindedly at last.
Charlesworth turned towards the hill top with a nod of farewell.
“There’s only one man living who knows that,” he said; and went away.
No evidence was brought forward at the inquest on this unfortunate submanager’s body which threw any light on the mystery of his murder or incriminating any person. Yet one small, possible clue was produced. A booking clerk from an obscure wayside station in a neighbouring dale came forward, and said that, at 5.30 o’clock on the morning of the discovery of the body, he, on going to his station to issue tickets for the first train, then about due, found walking up and down the platform a rough, sailor-like man, a perfect stranger, who presently took a ticket for Northport.
As he could give no very particular description of him, and as Northport was a town of some 250,000 inhabitants, the chances of finding this man were small. Nevertheless, there was the fact that such an individual, a stranger to the district, was within five miles of the cairn on Blind Gap Moor within a few hours of the time at which Swale was probably murdered.
Nothing came of this. Nothing came of anything that was brought forward in evidence. Only one matter seemed strange. The Leytonsdale Old Bank was one of the very few country banks which issued notes of their own; both the farmers had paid their rents to Swale in these local bank notes. At the end of a month none of these notes had reached the bank, where a careful lookout had been kept for them, each man having been able to furnish Etherington with particulars of their numbers.
And the manager came to the conclusion that the thief-murderer was a man sharp enough to know that there would be danger in dealing with those notes, and was making himself content with the small amount of gold, and the watch, chain and ring, which he had secured, or was so much more sharp as to change notes at some far off place, whence they would reach the bank slowly and at long intervals.
Six weeks passed, and one day Etherington, entering the bank after his luncheon hour, asked Lever, now promoted to the submanagership, if anything had happened during his absence.
“Nothing,” replied Lever, “except that Mr. Charlesworth retired the first of those bills drawn on Folkingham & Greensedge. It was due next week. He said he’d take it up now, as he had cash of theirs in hand.”
“That’s the second time he’s done that, isn’t it?” asked Etherington, glancing at a memorandum which Lever put before him.
“Third,” answered Lever. “He retired one in April and one in January. We hold three more yet. One August, October, December.”
The manager made no further remark. He went into his own room and sat down to his desk. But he began to think, and his thoughts centred on a question. Why had Charlesworth got into a practice of taking up the bills of his drawn on Folkingham & Greensedge a few days before they were due for presentation? Why, as in the case of the last three, did he come to the bank and retire them by paying cash, instead of following the usual course of having them presented on maturity to their acceptors? Once in a way this might have been done without remark, but it was becoming a practice. Charlesworth was a timber merchant in a biggish way of business. He did a lot of business with a firm in Northport—Folkingham & Greensedge, agents and exporters. For 12 or 15 years, to Etherington’s knowledge, Charlesworth had been in the habit of drawing upon this firm for large amounts against consignments of timber. Up to about six months before this the bills so drawn had always been allowed to mature and to be presented in due course for payment, which had always been prompt. But, as Lever just said, Charlesworth had himself retired the last three before they could be presented. Why?
That question began to bother Etherington. Why should a man bother himself to retire a bill which would fully mature in a week, and would be promptly met? It was a strange course—and since the New Year it had been repeated three times. Again —why?
Etherington waited until Lever had gone to his lunch, then he possessed himself of certain books and documents. He carried them into his own room, and jotted some dates and figures down on a slip of paper. In October of the previous year Charlesworth had brought in six acceptances of Folkingham & Greensedge’s. They were of various terms as regards length; each one was for a considerable amount— the one, for instance, which Charlesworth had taken up that very day was for over £1,500. And the whole lot—representing a sum of about £7,000 to £8,000—had, of course, been discounted by Etherington as soon as they were paid in by their drawer. There was nothing unusual in that—Etherington had been discounting similar acceptances, drawn by Charlesworth, accepted by Folkingham & Greensedge, for many years. What was unusual—and in the manager’s opinion, odd—was that, mostly, Charlesworth had taken up these bills before they became due. And for the third time Etherington asked himself the one pertinent question—why?
He took the books and papers back to their places presently, and got out a lot of bills which were waiting to mature. It was easy work to pick out the three of Charlesworth’s to which Lever had referred as being still in their hands. He took them to his room and laid them on his desk, and examined each carefully. The first, due in August, was for £950; the second, due in October, for £800; the third, due in December, for £1,175. But Etherington was not concerned, he was even faintly interested, in the amounts. What he was looking at was the signatures in each case. And presently, remembering that he had letters of Folkingham & Greensedge’s in his possession, he looked for and found them, and began to make a minute comparison, letter by letter, stroke by stroke, between the signatures on that firm’s correspondence paper and those written across the face of the bills. It was a close, meticulously close, examination that he made—first with the naked eye, secondly with the aid of a magnifying glass. And, though he was no expert in caligraphy, he came to the conclusion, at the end of ten minutes’ careful inspection, that the signature of Folkingham & Greensedge had in each case been carefully forged.
Etherington remained looking at those oblong slips of blue stamped paper for a long time. Then he put them, folded, into an envelope, in his pocketbook. And when Lever came back he went out to him.
“I must leave earlier than usual,” he remarked. “There’s nothing that needs my attention, I think. See that all’s right. And be here at nine sharp in the morning, Lever; I want to see you then.”
He walked quickly away to his own house, made ready for a short journey, and set off. It was only a two hours’ run to Northport, and he must go there at once. Such a doubt as that which had arisen in his mind could not be allowed to await solution—he must settle it. If he was right in his belief that he had discovered a forgery, what might not arise out of it?
The Greensedge, who had given part of its name to the firm with which Charlesworth did such extensive business, had been dead some years; so had the original Folkingham. There was no Greensedge now—the entire business belonged to one, Stephen Folkingham, a middle-aged man, who kept up the old style of the firm in spite of the fact that he was its sole proprietor. When Etherington arrived at his office in the famous shipping town, Stephen Folkingham had gone home. The bank manager followed him to his house outside the town, and was presently closeted with him in private.
“You are surprised to see me?” said Etherington.
“Frankly, yes!” replied Folkingham. “Something important of course.”
“And as private as it is important—for the moment at any rate,” said Etherington. He drew out his pocketbook, produced the three bills, and spread them on his host’s desk. He pointed to the accepting signatures across the fronts. “Are these signatures yours.”
Folkingham started. He bent down, glanced at the dates, and let out a surprised exclamation.
“Good heavens, no!” he answered. “I haven’t accepted a bill of Charlesworth’s for—oh, eighteen months. I’ve dropped all trade with him for quite that time.”
“Then, those signatures, to be plain, are forged?” said the manager.
Folkingham shrugged his shoulders.
“So far as I’m concerned, yes,” he replied. “I know nothing whatever about them—nothing! I’ve dropped that particular line of trade—some time ago. You don’t mean to say that Charlesworth——”
Etherington sat down and told Folkingham all about it. There had been six bills. Three had been retired. Probably the other three would have been similarly retired. And—nobody would have known of the forgery. The two men stared at each other when the story came to an end. Each was thinking. But Etherington was thinking of something that was not in the other man’s thoughts—something worse than forgery.
“What’s to be done?” asked Folkingham at last. “Or, rather, what do you intend to do?”
“I should be greatly obliged to you if you’d come over to Leytonsdale in the morning,” answered the manager. “He must be confronted. And your denial to his face—is precisely what I do want.”
“All right,” agreed Folkingham, after thinking this proposal over. “I’ll be with you by noon. Now stop and have some dinner—you can get a train back at 8.30. Dear, dear, this is extraordinary! What on earth’s behind it?”
Etherington did not discuss that. He was still thinking of his other idea; he thought of it all the way home in the train; he thought of it during the night; he was thinking of it at nine o’clock next morning when he went to the bank and found Lever there and took him into his private room.
“Lever,” he said, “you remember that last day that Swale was alive; just stir your memory. Can you remember anything special that he did—here? Anything relating to bank business? Think!”
Lever, a somewhat slow-going young man, thought for some time before he replied.
“I can’t think of anything except that, during the afternoon, he got all the acceptances out and went through them,” he answered. “There was nothing else, I’m sure, out of the ordinary.”
“Did he make any remark to you about any of those acceptances?” asked Etherington.
“No,” replied Lever. “None!”
Etherington nodded, intimating that he had no more to ask. But as soon as Lever had left the room he, himself, went out again and walked around to the police station.
Etherington remained closeted with Campbell, the superintendent of police, until after 10 o’clock. When he returned to the bank the doors had been opened to the public, and two or three customers had already entered. In one of them, a big, rawboned countryman, the manager recognized Matthew Marshall, the tenant of Low Flatts Farm.
Marshall, who had evidently cashed a small cheque, was standing in front of the counter with a little pile of gold and silver between himself and Lever, who was leaning forward from the other side to look intently at something which the farmer held in his big hand.
“A’ but doan’t tell me!” Marshall was saying, in his broad vernacular, “I’m none one to forget owt o’ t’ sovereigns ’at I paid to poor Mestur Swale t’ very neet ’at he wor done for—it is! I tell yer—’im an’ me, an’ my wife an’ all, lewked at that theer mark.”
Etherington went directly to the farmer’s side and looked at the sovereign, on the upper side of which somebody had stamped two deeply incised letters—X. M. And Marshall turned to him with a wide smile.
“I’m tellin’ Mestur Lever theer ’at this here sovereign is one——” he began. “I heard what you said,” interrupted Etherington, taking the coin and examining it. “Are you sure of what you say?”
“Ay, shure as I am ’at I’m speakin’ to you, Mestur Etherington,” answered the farmer promptly. “I’d noticed them letters on that coin afore iver I paid it away to Mestur Swale yon neet ’at t’ poor feller was murdered. Him an’ me had a bit o’ talk about it. Oh, ay, that’s t’ very identical coin ’at I gev him! Now, isn’t it queer ’at it should turn up at yor bank—what?”
“Leave it with me,” said Etherington, putting the marked sovereign in his pocket. “Mr. Lever will give you another in its place, Marshall,” he went on, leading the man towards the door; “don’t say anything about this in the town this morning. Come back here for a few minutes at 12 o’clock.”
The farmer opened his mouth, gave the manager a shrewd nod, and went off in silence; and Etherington went behind the counter to Lever.
“Did Charlesworth pay any of that money which he brought yesterday in gold?” he asked quietly.
“Twenty pounds or so,” answered Lever. He, too, suddenly looked shrewdly at the manager, and his professional stolidity broke down. “Good heavens,” he exclaimed. “You don’t think——”
“Hush!” said Etherington. “Listen! Charlesworth will be coming here just after 12. I’ve telephoned him. He won’t suspect anything from my message. Bring him straight into the private room.”
There was no one but Etherington in the private room when Charlesworth walked into it at a quarter past 12. And there was nothing remarkable in the manager’s surroundings, except that on his blotting-pad lay a sovereign and a closed envelope.
“Just a question or two,” said Etherington, in his calmest and iciest manner. “You paid some money in yesterday—to retire one of those acceptances. That sovereign was amongst others which you paid in.”
“Well?” said Charlesworth. He glanced at the coin unconsciously; and the manager, watching him closely, failed to see any sign of alarm. “What of it?”
Etherington put the point of his pen to the coin.
“That sovereign,” he said, “is marked. It’s one which Marshall handed to Swale —the night Swale was murdered. How did it come into your possession?”
Charlesworth’s face flushed a little at that, and he bent forward, looking at the coin.
“How on earth can I tell that?” he demanded. “You know how money changes hands!”
“I should like,” remarked Etherington, “to know if that sovereign has changed hands more than once since Marshall gave it to Swale. But—here is another question. What did Swale tell you when you met him that night at Blind Gap Moor? Come!”
He rose to his feet as he spoke, picking up the envelope and beginning to take three strips of blue paper from it. And Charlesworth rose, too, and stepped back a little, staring almost incredulously at his questioner.
“Come!” repeated Etherington. “What’s the use of denial? Didn’t Swale tell you that he had found out that the supposed signature of Folkingham and Greensedge on your acceptances were—forgeries? And didn’t you—eh? You know what you did then, Mr. Charlesworth, I think. But——”
He tapped a bell as he spoke, and the door of an inner room opened and revealed Folkingham and the police superintendent, and behind them the round, staring, amazed face of the farmer. Etherington laughed.
“You see?” he said, indicating Folkingham. “Hadn’t you better confess and be done with it? Come——”
“Look at him!” shouted Campbell, as he sprang into the room. “The revolver! Look out!”
But the room was a big one, and Charlesworth was at the further side. And before any of them could reach him he had turned the revolver on himself and sent a bullet through his brain.
Etherington made a little, half-articulate sound of vexation.
“I hurried him too much!” he muttered. “But, then, I never thought he’d do that —!” He turned to the startled superintendent. “Get him taken away, will you?” he said quietly. “The affair is—over.”