This was the first time that the judge, recently raised to the Bench, had ever pronounced the death sentence, and his voice trembled a little as he came to the final words. But he spoke them at last, and his accents became firmer as he added their complement.
“. . . And may the Lord have mercy upon your soul.”
“Amen!” said the chaplain, in a faint whisper.
The man in the dock, who had never taken his eyes off the judge during the
couple of minutes during which the black square had rested on the grey wig, suddenly smiled—a cynical, half-sneering smile. And, shrugging his shoulders as the warders on either side touched his elbows, he spoke—his voice as hard and steady as the judge’s had been uncertain and faltering.
“If I get no better mercy from them above than I’ve had from them below I shall do badly!” he said. “However, there’s none of you’ll know what chances up yonder. Damn the lot of you!”
Then, with a harsh laugh that grated badly on at least one set of nerves, he turned and disappeared, and the judge, who had already risen from his seat, disappeared, too, behind the heavy curtains over which hung the insignia of Justice. He went slowly to his room and the high sheriff went with him, zealous in the performance of the duties of his office. A pompous and punctilious man, he shook his head as he and the judge looked at each other.
“A hardened sinner—a bad fellow!” said the high sheriff solemnly. “Sad—very sad, to hear such sentiments on such an occasion.”
The judge took off his wig with a sigh of weariness.
“I’m not at all satisfied about that case,” he remarked. “Not at all!”
The high sheriff started. He himself was very well satisfied; in his opinion, the case had ended very properly.
“Not—satisfied?” he exclaimed. “I—ahem!—the evidence——”
“On the evidence,” said the judge, quietly, “the jury could not possibly have found any other verdict, and the trial could not have come to any other end. But—I am not at all sure, in my own mind, that this unfortunate fellow is guilty.”
“Dear me!” said the high sheriff. “Um! Oh, well, of course, I suppose we all have——”
“Our secret impressions!” broke in the judge, with a sly smile. “Just so. And, you see, that happens to be mine. In spite of—what has just happened—I am not satisfied. Judicially, of course, I am. But——”
“Oh, quite so, quite so!” said the high sheriff, who was not a brilliant man, and who called black black and white white. “I understand. But, of course, such things happen.”
The judge slowly took off his robes and looked at his marshal with a whimsical smile.
“They happen,” he said—“yes, they happen.”
Then he began to talk of something else; and presently he drove away in state to the judge’s lodgings outside the little town, and the high sheriff was glad to see the last of him for that day. Mr. Justice Machin had had a reputation for slight eccentricity and whimsicality before his elevation from bar to bench, and, in the high sheriff’s opinion, he was bidding fair to deepen it.
“Not guilty, indeed!” mused the high sheriff, as he himself drove off to his country seat. “God bless my soul! Why, the case was as plain as a pikestaff. Never heard clearer evidence in my life—Machin himself said so.”
Mr. Justice Machin had certainly said so in his summing-up of the case, and his reminder to the jury that the evidence before them was purely circumstantial had not influenced them on the prisoner’s behalf. Everything pointed to the prisoner’s guilt, and as the judge slowly dressed for dinner that night he once more reviewed the whole testimony, point by point, and he knew that no conscientious jury could have arrived at any other conclusion. And yet——
“And after all,” mused Mr. Justice Machin—“after all, there is such a thing as intuition. I suppose I possess a certain share of it, and my intuition, whatever it’s worth, tells me that the poor fellow is innocent. Innocent! Yet found guilty on the strongest circumstantial evidence!”
For the evidence in what was known as the Muirdale case was strong enough. It was a somewhat sordid tragedy of primitive passions. In Muirdale, a lonely, faraway valley amongst the wild hills that shut in that side of the country in which Mr. Justice Machin was then holding the Spring Assize, two men, young farmers, were in love with the same girl, and the sad fact that one of them was now lying in a murdered man’s grave, and the other sitting in his cell, awaiting execution for the murder, was largely due to another fact no less certain—that the girl had played fast and loose with each in turn. The mere details of the case, which had seemed so plain to the high sheriff—a good representative of popular opinion—were few. Michael Cruddas, a well-to-do young farmer, of Muirdale, cultivating his own land, had been engaged to the daughter of a neighbour, Avice Thormthwaite, who evidently had a reputation as the beauty of the district. Suddenly the engagement was broken off, and the girl immediately entered into another with James Garth, tenant of an adjacent farm. Michael Cruddas, undoubtedly a man of violent and ungovernable passions, had suspected Garth of underhand work, and, after a fierce quarrel with him at Highland Market, had publicly threatened to shoot him. Early next morning a shepherd, setting out across the hills from Muirdale, had found Garth’s dead body lying in a lonely place near Michael Cruddas’s farm, with half the head blown off. He had been dead some hours and had presumably been shot as he made his way home from market—shot, too, at close quarters. And close by the cottage was a cartridge which was new and had evidently been withdrawn from a fowling-piece as soon as it had been fired. Here had occurred a damning piece of evidence—Michael Cruddas was the only man in the neighbourhood who used that particular make of cartridge, and an examination of his gun by the police on the morning after the murder showed that it had been very recently discharged.
Considering the circumstances, and the savage threat made, said the witnesses, in apparent dead earnest, there seemed to be no reasonable doubt that Cruddas had been so obsessed by his passion for vengeance that, regardless of consequences, he had laid in wait for his successful rival and killed him.
But Michael Cruddas, promptly arrested, immediately declared his innocence. He said then what he afterwards said before the magistrates and at his trial. He had certainly threatened to shoot Garth, and he meant to shoot him if he came across him. But he had not shot him. Confronted with the facts of the cartridge, of the recently-discharged gun, and the clear proof that no other gun in this district—a very thinly-populated one—could be used for such a cartridge, he merely replied that he knew nothing about the affair. He had returned from market somewhat the worse for drink; he had drunk heavily in his own house, and had gone to bed drunk. Of that night he remembered no more than that. But out of this the prosecution made much; Michael Cruddas, it urged, had been drunk when he shot James Garth in the lonely lane near his farm; he had gone home and drunk more; drunk so much, in fact, that his mind had become a blank. And, in the opinion of everybody in court, this theory was a correct one. No one doubted that Michael Cruddas was a murderer.
Nevertheless, Mr. Justice Machin doubted whether, in this case, justice was being done. He was unable to account to himself for his notions—they were vague, formless, but they were there. Something in the accused man’s bitter, cynical, almost indifferent conduct in dock and witness-box had impressed him—the last remark, made with the death sentence still ringing in his ears, had convinced him that there was an element in the Muirdale case which so far had escaped notice. And late that night, as he smoked a last cigar in company with the smart young barrister—his nephew—who acted as his marshal, Mr. Justice Machin suddenly clenched a resolution that had been slowly forming.
“We shall finish all the business by noon to-morrow,” he observed. “And we shall get away by an early afternoon train. And as I have no further duties for a week I am going—somewhere. The fact is I am going—keep the fact to yourself—to Muirdale.”
The young man on the other side of the hearth glanced quickly at the keen face and watchful eyes.
“Muirdale!” he exclaimed. “The place of the murder?”
“Just so,” replied Mr. Justice Machin. “The truth is—though I don’t want it talked about—I am not satisfied about that case, and I propose to perform a little extra-judicial work upon it. I am going to Muirdale to have a look around.”
“You’ll be spotted—known,” pointed out the marshal.
“I think not,” said the judge. “If you remember, there were very few witnesses and persons concerned. Muirdale is one of the loneliest valleys in the North, I understand. Also I hear you can get a little fishing there. I shall put on an old tweed suit and take my rod. I don’t think that the people who only saw me in court will recognise me in shabby mufti. Anyway, I am going.”
When Mr. Justice Machin said he was going to do anything those who knew him best were well aware that he would do it, and his companion accordingly made no comment beyond remarking that the proposed excursion was rather unusual.
“I said I proposed to do a little extra-judicial work,” answered the judge, with a dry smile. “I am not going to Muirdale in a professional capacity, but as, say, Mr. Maxwell, a quiet, elderly gentleman who wishes for a few days’ rest amongst the hills. If anybody in the shape of, perhaps, police, recognises me—well, I dare say a quiet word will ensure silence.”
Then Mr. Justice Machin threw away his cigar and went to bed, and before retiring he packed a knapsack and laid a fishing-rod at its side, and as he glanced at himself in the mirror he smiled to think what a difference a judge’s wig and stately robes can make to a pleasant-faced, rather country-squire-looking gentleman.
“I don’t believe anybody will know me from Adam!” he mused.
At a late hour of the following afternoon an elderly gentleman in a well-worn suit of grey tweed, whose shoulders supported a small knapsack and whose left hand carried a fishing-rod, came to the head of a winding pass which zig-zagged up a heath-clad hillside, and, pausing, looked down into a valley which lay, lost amongst the hills, far beneath him. And he laughed gently, but cynically, as he looked at the narrow streak of winding stream, the tiny spire of a little church, the cluster of stoneroofed cottages about a grey bridge, the sparsely dotted farmsteads on the hillsides and in the ravines which lay dipped in black shadow—this, according to the poets and painters, should be a haunt of idyllic peace.
“But, unfortunately,” mused the judge, as he began to descend into the valley, “unfortunately the human passions run in as fierce tides in Arcadia as in Babylon. And if the spirit of Nature seems divine enough on the surface here in Muirdale I had enough proof yesterday that man’s spirit is not appreciably different here among pastoral prettiness from what it is in Seven Dials or Whitechapel. Primitive! Primitive! I suppose my accommodation will also be primitive—if there is any.”
He found accommodation at a little wayside inn, whose landlord told him that he occasionally lodged chance tourists and strolling artists, and could give his visitors a decent room, clean sheets, plain food and a bit of fishing in the stream.
“Nothing better,” said the judge, and went upstairs to wash away the dust of his journey.
He looked out of a tiny window on the lonely houses of the hillside, and wondered which of them was that across whose threshold Michael Cruddas would never again set foot—unless something extraordinary occurred to save him from the hangman. He wondered, too, in which of those patches of green standing out against the blue and purple of the hillsides James Garth had met his death. And before he went down to the little parlour to eat the bacon and eggs which he had ordered his mind was filled with wonder that, in such solitudes as these, men and women should so forget the impressiveness of the great silence, the far-stretching skies, the hush of the nights and glory of the sunsets, as to let their passions carry them to deeds of blood.
But the judge was soon to learn that the folk who live amongst the finer things of Nature are as much concerned with personalities as the people of towns. He sat in a shadowed corner of the little parlour that night and watched and listened. Men came and went—men passing along the dale who stayed a few minutes, men who sat down for half an hour over a pint of ale, men who stayed longer, sitting in accustomed places. And there was but one topic of conversation—the result of the local murder case. Also there was but one opinion upon it—James Garth had undoubtedly been shot by Michael Cruddas.
But there was a difference of opinion as to the state of Michael Cruddas’ mind when the murder took place. The judge, although unused to the north country dialect, easily made out what the difference was. One set of critics held that Michael Cruddas shot his victim in cold blood; the other set held that he was drunk when he did the deed, and never knew that he had done it. And they were arguing these differences, each side supporting its arguments by recalling interesting characteristics in Michael Cruddas, when a young man strode into the place, at sight of whom everybody became suddenly silent.
The observant watcher in the shadowy corner, seeing the effect which the newcomer’s entrance had produced, looked at him with interest as he went up to the bar and demanded a glass of ale. He saw a tall, lumpish-looking fellow, heavy of face, cold of eye. His whole air and attitude showed a species of surly shyness, and when he looked around with a general nod at the company his expression was furtive and almost suspicious. He was evidently in no mood for conversation, and he flushed awkwardly when one of the men sitting near the bar addressed him.
“Been a fair day for t’ time o’ year, Mr. Cruddas,” he observed.
The newcomer turned away sullenly.
“Reight enough,” he muttered.
He drank off his ale and strode quickly out without further word, and the men looked at each other.
“Allus short o’ speech, is Marshall Cruddas,” observed one. “Ye nivver can get much out of him.”
“Happen he feels that a time like this it’s best to say naught,” remarked another man. “It’s none a pleasant reflection to know that a relative’s goin’ to be hanged by t’ neck till he’s dead, now, is it?”
The landlord, who was leaning over the bar in his shirt sleeves, smiled and scratched his elbows.
“Well, it’s an old saying that it’s an ill wind that blows nobody any good,” he remarked. “It’s a bad thing for Michael Cruddas to come under t’ hangman’s hands, so to speak, but it’s a good thing for Marshall Cruddas yonder. Marshall’ll come in for all ’at Michael leaves.”
There was a murmur of assent from the small company.
“Ay, that’s right enough, that is,” said an elderly man. “Land, at any rate. Marshall’s all the man-relative that Michael’s got. Oh, ay, he’ll come in for a nice thing, will Marshall!”
“So you see ’at that old saying’s right,” observed the landlord. “T’ wind’s blowin’ bad for Michael—he’ll be hanged—but good for Marshall—he’ll get what Michael leaves.”
Then ten o’clock struck, and the two or three late sitters clumped away, and the landlord, having fastened the front door, returned to the parlour and looked at his guest. He was obviously inclined for a chat.
“Yon young feller that was in a bit since,” he said, “is cousin to him that was sentenced to death at th’ ’sizes yesterday. As them men were saying, he’ll come in for all ’at t’ poor chap leaves.”
“And that,” asked the judge, “is it much?”
“Niceish thing,” answered the landlord. He supplied himself with a drink, and began to fill his pipe. “Michael’s none badly off. There’s happen 150 acres of land ’at’s been in the Cruddas family many a hundred year; it’s their own freehold, so it’s bound to come to Marshall—him that was in just now. Then I should think Michael has money put by. He’s allus done well, and, though he drank heavy of late over this love affair, he wasn’t a waster or a spender. And there’s nobody much for it but Marshall, ’ceptin’ an old aunt or two ’at he might leave a few pounds for.”
“Were the two cousins on friendly terms?” asked the judge.
“Oh, they were right enough with each other!” replied the landlord. “Neither of ’em the sort for makin’ much display o’ family feelin’, as you might say, but still the sort to reckon ’at blood’s thicker than water.”
“Live together?” inquired the judge.
“Nay, they didn’t,” said the landlord, “though single men both. No; Michael, his place is High Gill. You can see it from your bedroom window. Marshall, he runs a mill lower down in the valley. He’d be on his way home, would Marshall, when he called in just now.”
“I read this case in the newspaper this morning,” remarked the judge. “I suppose there is no doubt in the opinion of the people hereabouts that Michael was guilty?”
“None!” answered the landlord, with decision. “None whatever! But, as you heard to-night, there’s some hold that Michael never knew he’d done it. Did it when he was drunk, they say.”
“Is that possible?” said the judge, more to himself than his companion. “Could he really have shot this man and never known anything of it?”
“In my opinion he could,” said the landlord calmly, “for I’ve known men do some queer things when they were in drink and have no recollection of doin’ them when they grew sober. Anyway, they’ve found Michael guilty, and I reckon he’ll hang, and Marshall yonder’ll step into his shoes.”
“There was a girl mentioned in the case,” said the judge.
The landlord nodded, and then shook his head.
“Avice Thormthwaite,” he said. “Ay, just so! There gen’ally is a woman i’ them cases, mister, isn’t there?”
“What about this woman?” asked the judge.
“Why, she played fast and she played loose,” answered the landlord. “She’s a beauty—no denyin’ that—but she’s skittish. First she was on with Michael Cruddas, and then with Jim Garth; then she’d change about again. What drove Michael mad in the end was that he got it into his head that Jim Garth had tricked him. But what is likely is that what trickery was done was done by her. And,” concluded the landlord, dropping his voice as he glanced round at his kitchen door, behind which sat his women folk—“and they do say—some of ’em—that Avice was tricking both of ’em, and that, instead of quarrelling over her, they’d ha’ done well to ha’ shaken hands and had no more to do wi’ her. See, mister?”
“I see,” said the judge.
Then he took his candle and went to bed; and as the murmur of the stream soothed him to sleep, he mused on the fact that when Michael Cruddas dropped into eternity through that gruesome hole in the floor of the scaffold, Marshall Cruddas would succeed to a very desirable bit of property, which would be none the less valuable because it had belonged to a murderer.
“That is,” murmured the judge, sleepily—“that is, if Michael really is a murderer. Now, I wonder——”
But then sleep overcame him.
Next morning found Mr. Justice Machin, in his character of holiday-maker, exploring in the neighbourhood of High Gill. He came across an ancient woodman, who showed him where James Garth’s body was found, and he was able to trace for himself all the details of the scene on which the sordid tragedy was enacted. And as he looked about him he formed a new opinion—that in cases like this it would be an excellent thing if judge and jury took the trouble to visit the scene of a crime and make a study of its geography.
The woodman was inclined to be talkative; it was seldom that he had a chance of playing the part of showman. From a slight eminence in the road on which the judge met him, he pointed out one place after another.
“Ay,” he said, indicating a lonely farmstead in a deep dell just below, “yon’s High Gill Farm, as belongs to Michael Cruddas, him as is to die for murderin’ Jim Garth. Ye see yon little clump o’ trees, master—there a’ t’ end o’ the farm garden? That’s where they say Michael laid i’ wait to shoot him; that’s where t’ body was found, and that there cartridge that the lawyers made so much fuss about. Ye see, Jim Garth he were bound to pass that garden end on his way home—yon’s his house, up t’ hillside there. And yon cottage as ye see among t’ trees in t’ end o’ this valley, that’s where the lass lives ’at they quarrelled over—Avice Thormthwaite they call her.”
“Is her father a farmer, too?” asked the judge.
The woodman laughed drily.
“It ’ud take a cleverer man nor me to tell you what Thormthwaite is, master,” he
answered. “He reckons to be a game watcher, but there’s them as would say he poaches a great deal more nor what he preserves. Queer lot is them Thormthwaites.”
The judge made no reply to this. He was examining the landscape. “Which is the way to the market town—Highdale?” he suddenly asked. The woodman raised his hand and pointed.
“Go down this lane to t’ corner of Cruddas’ garden—where I told yer Jim Garth
was shot,” he said. “Turn there to your left and go straight over t’ shoulder o’ yon hill —ye’ll see Highdale then. That,” he added, “is t’ way ’at Jim Garth walked to his death—he were coming back fro’ market when Cruddas laid i’ wait for him wi’ t’ gun.”
Mr. Justice Machin gave his informant a shilling, and set out in the direction indicated. He paused a moment at the clump of trees by which Garth had met his death. Certainly that was a likely place for a murder. The trees made good cover, and the murderer could easily slip away amongst them when the deed was done. And the judge was conjuring up the scene for his own benefit when the hasp of a gate snapped close by, and out of the farm garden came two people in such close converse that they did not see the stranger until they were close upon him.
One of these two was the man whom the judge had seen in the little inn on the previous evening—Marshall Cruddas. The other was a tall, finely-developed, blackhaired, black-eyed, bold-looking young woman, whose beauty blazed out in those Arcadian surroundings like a peony in a garden of quiet colour. Both looked up sharply as the stranger moved; Marshall Cruddas, recognising him as the visitor at the inn, dropped his eye and turned his head. The girl stared the judge through and through, and when he had passed her for some distance and purposely glanced back, she was still staring.
“Avice Thormthwaite, of course,” murmured the judge, as he walked leisurely forward. “Abold beauty.”
He went on his way, lounging about as a holiday-maker would, until he topped the shoulder of the hill pointed out by the woodman. There, two miles off, he saw Highdale, a cluster of grey houses around a square-towered church. But Mr. Justice Machin had no intention of going into the little town; the only people who would be likely to recognise him lived there. They were not many—a police official or two, a solicitor or two, two or three witnesses who had heard Michael Cruddas use the threatening words. Still, the judge had an object in his walk. In the map of the district which had been laid before him at the trial, there was marked, on the roadside leading from Highdale to High Gill, an inn called the Pigeon Pie. And he had a certain notion concerning that inn, and he went forward until he found it, a queer, half ramshackle old place standing lonely amidst pine and fir; and he went in and asked for a glass of ale from a landlord who had obviously little to do.
It was an easy thing to lure this man into talking of the murder; he, in fact, was reading of it in a day-old newspaper when the judge entered the house.
“I suppose,” said the caller, “that you know all the parties concerned in this affair?”
The landlord shook his head with the knowingness of the man who believes himself unusually conversant with things.
“Know ’em, mister? Ay, all on ’em!” he answered. “I weren’t called as a witness, but I was one o’ them that heerd Michael Cruddas use them threats to Jim Garth. In the Three Crowns at Highdale yonder it war—market day. Drunk, of course, was Michael—but not drunk enough to know nowt about what he said. ‘Next time I come across yer when I’ve a gun in my hand,’ he says, ‘I’ll shoot yer as I’d shoot a mad dog,’ he says them words.”
“I read the case,” remarked the judge. “This house of yours would be on the way home for these men. Did Cruddas call here that night?”
“No, he didn’t,” replied the landlord. “I saw him go past, mutterin’ and talkin’ to hisself, just as it come dark, like. But Jim Garth come in—I’ve allus said, since, that I reckon I was the last he ever spok’ to. An’ I warned him agen Michael—’cause Michael had murder in him when he spok’ them words—ye could see it?”
“And what did Garth say?” said the judge.
“He said summit ’at I’ve puzzled and studied over ever since,” answered the landlord, scratching his head. “It were this here—and he said it as he was sitting i’ that very chair ’at you’re in now. ‘If Michael Cruddas knew t’ truth,’ he says, ‘he’d be for shakin’ hands wi’ me, i’stead o’ shootin’ me.’ ‘Why don’t you tell him t’ truth, then?’ I says. ‘’Cause he’s one o’ them ’at’ll listen to nowt when he’s mad wi’ rage an’ drink,’ says Garth. ‘All t’ same,’ he says, ‘it’ll come out.’”
“What do you think he meant?” said the judge.
The landlord shook his head and stared at the smoke-blackened rafters.
“Don’t know, mister,” he said. “But—very—like—summat about yon lass. She played fast and loose wi’ Jim, and she played t’ same wi’ Michael—and if she could do that wi’ t’ two on ’em, separate like, she could do it w’ i’ both put together.”
“But you don’t know anything?” suggested the judge.
“Nowt,” said the landlord. “Nowt! All t’ same, that were what Garth said, sittin’ i’ that chair an hour afore he met his end.”
The judge said no more, and presently he rose to depart, and the landlord, following him to the door, looked critically at the lowering sky.
“There’s goin’ to be a heavy rain,” he remarked. “It’ll come within twelve hours. Stayin’ i’ these parts, mister?”
“For a day or two,” answered the judge.
“Then ye’ll see what ye’ve very like never seen afore,” said the landlord. “When it rains here—it rains.”
The judge went slowly back to Muirdale, thinking of anything but weather.
He was chiefly wondering if the evidence brought before men in his capacity is always as carefully prepared as it might be. If he had known of James Garth’s remark to the landlord of the Pigeon Pie during the course of Michael Cruddas’s short trial, he would have insisted on knowing more. But—of what—of whom?
“There is time yet, however,” he mused.
He spent that afternoon in pottering around the neighbourhood of the inn; in the evening, after his simple meal, he once more repaired to the quiet corner of the parlour in which he had sat the previous night. And as he became accustomed to the gloom, he saw in another corner a strange face, which when he looked at it was fixed attentively on his own. Mr. Justice Machin knew when he saw that face that he had seen it before; he knew, too, that he had cause to remember it. But, in spite of an instant searching of memory, he could neither remember where he had seen it or when or why he preserved a recollection of it. It was a face that suggested gipsy blood—very dark, sinister, crafty; even in that dim light the judge could make out the black locks which framed it, and the gleam of the black eyes looking out from beneath shaggy eyebrows. And as he looked, it moved out of the shadow, and its owner, a wiry, muscular-looking fellow of middle age, clad in velveteens and whipcord, came across to him, pulling at his fur cap with an affectation of almost servile politeness.
“Begging your pardon, sir,” said the man. “Gentleman as is stopping in the house, I think, sir?”
“Well?” said the judge, quietly.
“I hear as how you were after a bit o’ fishing, sir,” continued the other. “The landlord mentioned of it. If you like, sir, I can take you to a spot to-morrow, after the rain—it’s coming to-night, sir—where you’ll enjoy yourself. Grand spot, sir.”
“Is it a place you have a right to fish in?” asked the judge.
“Oh, yes, sir; all right. Common fishing, sir—not preserved,” answered the man, readily enough. “But,” he added, with a knowing wink, “there ain’t many as knows of it.”
The judge reflected a moment.
“Very good,” he said. “Come for me to-morrow when you think fit. It will rain to-night, you say?”
“Rain within half an hour, sir,” replied the other, confidently. “To-morrow, then, sir? It’ll be towards evening.”
The judge nodded and the man, again pulling his forelock, moved off and presently left the inn. The landlord entered as he went out, and exchanged a word with him at the door.
“The man who has just gone out,” remarked the judge presently, “is not, I think, a North countryman?”
“You’re right, sir—he isn’t,” answered the landlord. “Comes from southern parts, though he’s been here, game watching, these six or seven years. That’s Thormthwaite. Father,” he continued, drawing nearer to the judge and whispering, “of her that was talked of in the murder case.”
“Ah, indeed,” said the judge, indifferently. “He has promised to show me a bit of good fishing to-morrow. Will he be all right?”
The landlord laughed.
“Nobody better, sir,” he answered. “Although he’s not a native, there’s nobody knows these parts better than Dan Thormthwaite. He’ll take you where you can pull ’em out fast as you can throw in. There’ll be good fishing after this rain—it’s coming.”
The rain came almost as the landlord finished speaking—came as it only can come in a mountainous country, with a suddenness of fury that swept all before it ere settling down into a steady, continuous, letting loose of the moisture that had been gathering all day around the hilltops in great masses of ominous cloud. It was still pouring down on roof and road when the judge went to bed; it was as heavy as ever when he woke in the night; the ceaseless rattle of it was there when he half woke in the grey dawn. Nor was there any sign of its cessation when he drew his blind at last and saw that the little river had already overflowed and that the meadow which flanked it had been transformed into a miniature lake.
All the morning and through half the afternoon the rain fell, never staying, and the valley resounded with the noise of many waters. Far up the dark hillsides the judge, staring out of the inn windows, saw long, white streaks come into being against the blackness of the rocks and the purple of the heather, and recognised them for newlyformed cascades pouring down from the moors above.
Now and then a soaked traveller came in and spoke of flooded and impassable ways. It seemed to the judge that he was being cut off from the outer world. And then, towards the close of the afternoon, the rain ceased as suddenly as it had begun, and a weak sun struggled out of the clouds and shot fitful gleams on the swirling brown waters in the valley. And presently, as the judge drank a cup of tea in the parlour, a dark face showed itself at the door, and Thormthwaite’s voice hoped the gentleman was ready for his bit of sport.
“Is it possible to make one’s way anywhere?” asked the judge, glancing at the window. “Aren’t we water-locked?”
“Leave that to me, sir,” answered Thormthwaite, knowingly. “If you’ll follow me you shan’t as much as wet your ankles.”
The judge set out with demur. He had his good reasons for making this excursion. For one thing, he was a good sportsman and the adventure appealed to him; for another, he wanted to find out—quietly—where and when he had seen this man Thormthwaite before; and lastly, it was in his mind that during this excursion he might learn something which would throw some light on the business which had brought him to Muirdale. He would ask no questions, he would make no reference, but his nearly thirty years’ legal experience would stand him in good stead if a dropped word, a mere phrase, came in his way.
Thormthwaite led the way out of the valley by a rocky path which ran along the side of the ravine over which High Gill Farm stood. Muirdale was filled with these ravines. They penetrated deeply into the hillsides, and when the trees were in full leaf, as they were at that time, they were black as night till unaccustomed eyes grew used to their gloom.
The judge looked curiously about him as they progressed. Below the shelving rock and loose boulders over which they scrambled, a swollen cataract poured down into the valley, carrying loose débris of plants and branches on its swirling waters. There was little prospect of successful fishing amidst such a tumult, and he pointed the fact out to his guide. But Thormthwaite pointed into the further recesses of the gloomy ravine, and the judge, straining his eyes, saw what looked like the ruins of an ancient watermill.
“There’s a pool behind those walls,” said Thormthwaite, “where we shall find as many trout as I can carry. And there—it’s quiet.”
He led the way forward until they came up to the mill and to a door which stood in an angle of the wall. This he pushed open and stood aside, motioning his companion to enter. And the judge entered, and saw at once that he was in strange and curious surroundings.
The place he had walked into so unsuspectingly was a cavernous vault, formed by high, naked walls, open to the sky. Half-way up one of these walls water trickled freely through what was obviously a hatch, long unused; on the flagged floor on which the judge stood water stood in shallow pools. He was a man of remarkably quick perception and he saw instantly what this place was—the wheelhouse of a mill, from which the wheel itself had been removed. And he saw, too, that if the hatch in the wall above him gave way under the pressure of water in the dam behind it, the whole place would be submerged in a few minutes—or seconds.
All this Mr. Justice Machin recognised in an instant. And in the same instant he heard a mocking laugh and a hurried step on the wet stones. Then the door was slammed and a bolt shot into a socket without. He was alone—a prisoner.
“Now, I know that this man and I have met before,” he said suddenly. “This is his revenge.”
The immediate presence of what might be danger—might, indeed, be death— nerved the judge to an apparently imperturbable composure. And when Thormthwaite’s face, sneering and evil, suddenly appeared in an opening high above him, he looked up steadily and even commandingly.
“My man,” he said calmly, “you will come down and open that door at once!”
Thormthwaite laughed. He was leaning out of a ruinous trap-door in the side wall some twelve or fifteen feet above his prisoner, and he folded his arms on the ledge and sneered again as he watched the proud face below.
“You forget, Mr. Justice Machin, that I’m up and you’re down this time,” he said. “You’re a good hand at forgetting. I ain’t—I remember all that I want to remember. I remember you—knew you as soon as I set eyes on you last night. Hang me if I ever expected such luck—after all these years!”
The judge had been making a violent effort to exercise his memory to the full. And suddenly a certain day of the past came to him, and he nodded quietly.
“I remember you,” he said. “You came before me at the quarter sessions at Malgrave—many years ago—when I was recorder. But your name was not Thormthwaite at that time.”
“’Tain’t now, for that matter,” sneered the man, “but I’m the same chap. Yes, I did come before you, as you says, and you give me five years—five awful years! I wish I could keep you where you are now for five years. I would if I could!”
“And I also remember that you richly deserved your sentence,” continued the judge, calmly. “You are evidently still inclined to wickedness. What are you intending to do now?”
“I’m intending to make an end of you,” answered Thormthwaite, insolently. “You’re going to drown—like a rat in a cage. I’m going to knock a timber or two out of that sluice up there presently, and give you a bath. Yu’ll never want another. Look ’round; there’s no getting out of where you are.”
But the judge kept his keen eyes fixed on his captor.
“Let me point out to you,” he said, as quietly as if he were arguing some legal quibble, “that you’re putting a noose round your own neck. It is known that I am in Muirdale; the people at the inn also know that I have come out with you. If——”
“There’s no ‘if’ about it,” he said. “I reckoned it all out last night—especially after I saw what a lot o’ rain we should have. My tale’ll be straight enough to suit any crowner’s jury, anyhow. You come out fishing with me—I show you a good place at back of the old mill, and I leave you there, fishing peaceable, while I go to get my supper. When I come back you’ve fallen into the mill-weir and drowned yourself. Eh?”
“I’m not in the mill-weir,” said the judge.
Thormthwaite laughed once more; this time he seemed to be genuinely amused.
“You will be—when I find you,” he said. “I tell you I’ve worked it all out. I shall watch you drown, and when you’re done I shall let the water off by that sluice behind you—it only opens from the outside, so you needn’t try it—and then I shall pull you out and put you in the weir. Plain and simple, eh? You fell in owing to the bank being rotten with the heavy rain. What d’ye say to that?”
“I say you are a murderer,” answered the judge, “and I hope you have no other murders on your conscience. But I doubt it!”
“You’re a rotten liar!” said Thormthwaite. “I’ve none. And there’ll be no murder done on you, only justice. I’d a wife and three youngsters to keep when you put me away for five years—all I’d left when I came out was the lass you saw this morning. And what—what,” he suddenly burst out with a flash of ungovernable fury,—“what did you come spying around here for? A judge! You didn’t come here by no accident, I’ll warrant. Happen you think I killed Jim Garth?”
“I am beginning to think it very possible,” said the judge, coldly.
“Then you’re wrong!” sneered Thormthwaite, laughing evilly. “For I didn’t. All the same, as you’re going where you can’t tell secrets, I don’t mind telling you that I know who did. And it wasn’t Michael Cruddas!”
The judge’s own danger was suddenly swept out of his mind. He turned a beseechingly eager face to his tormentor.
“Thormthwaite!” he cried. “Stop this foolishness! Take me out of this. Tell me who killed Garth, and I’ll give you a thousand—two thousand pounds! I won’t say a word about this business—it shall be a secret between us. Cash, Thormthwaite— down in good gold! Come, man, be sensible, be—my God, what’s that?”
High above both of them, high above the sluice to which Thormthwaite had kept pointing so threateningly a sudden cracking of the gaunt, bare wall showed itself, and a great spurt of brown water shot through, forming a gleaming arch, and hit the stone flags at the judge’s feet. And before either man could cry out again the crack wavered, deepened, widened, the big wall seemed to be torn in two by giant hands, and, with a roar that startled the folk down in Muirdale, a mighty mass of seething water leaped out above them. The mill-weir had burst, and the judge just realised the horror of it as he was caught up, buffeted, crushed, swept away into stifling darkness amongst a whirling wreckage of wood and stone.
It seemed to him that he heard a human cry of shrill agony and he was vaguely wondering if it was his own, when a great blank rushed over him, and he knew no more. The blankness and blackness came so suddenly that he had scarcely time to wonder if death were also at hand.
When Mr. Justice Machin next knew anything, he found himself lying in a soft, warm bed, in a slightly darkened room. Near him he heard voices—hushed, murmuring. He lay still and listened.
“Bound to happen sooner or later,” said a voice which had a professional ring in it. “The turning of that old mill-weir into a big fish-pond was a most foolish thing to do. I warned Sir Thomas myself of what might happen when an unusually heavy rain came—and here’s the result! Half the village swept away, eight lives lost. Our patient here had a most lucky escape—and, by the by, when he comes round we must get to know who he really is.”
The judge turned his head and spoke, and was frightened to hear the feebleness of his own voice.
“I will tell you that,” he said, “if you will tell me how much I am damaged and when I can get about again.”
The two doctors came forward and became busy, and the judge watched both.
“I must request an immediate and unequivocal answer,” he said sharply. “Shall I be able to travel to London within a week? Yes or no?”
“No!” replied the elder doctor. “Certainly not! Nor within a fortnight.”
“Thank you,” said the judge. “Then I must trouble you to take down a telegraphic message for me, and I must ask you to personally see to its immediate transmission. The fact is, I am Sir Francis Machin, and the telegram is to the Home Secretary.”
Two days later the Home Secretary sat in his private room listening to the report made to him by the very high official whom he had sent down to Muirdale on receipt of the judge’s telegram. He smiled a little when the report came to an end.
“So it really comes to this,” he said, rising and pacing the room. “On the strength of his own intuitive feeling in the matter, and on that chance remark of the man Thormthwaite, made to him just before the accident happened—that he, Thormthwaite, knew who murdered James Garth, and it was not Michael Cruddas —Machin wants me to stay execution in this case? That it?”
“That is it,” answered the official. “What is more, I’m quite certain that he’ll be in a fever until he knows that you’ve done what he wants. I never saw a man so earnest about anything in my life! He’s confident that this man Michael Cruddas is innocent.”
“And pray whom does he think is—or was—guilty?” asked the Home Secretary.
“His theory,” answered the official, “is that the cousin, Marshall Cruddas, shot Garth, and that the girl Avice Thormthwaite was accessory, and possibly instigator.”
“And those two, you say, are dead; drowned in the flood, as the girl’s father also was?” said the Home Secretary.
“Marshall Cruddas and the girl were drowned together in Cruddas’ house,” replied the official. “The father was killed by falling masonry.”
The Home Secretary smiled enigmatically.
“Machin,” he observed, “was always a man of queer whims and fancies, but I don’t think he’s very likely to be wrong. Oh, well, send Machin a wire. A word will do. Send it now and set his mind at rest.”
The official rose and moved to the door.
“The word?” he asked.
The Home Secretary had already reseated himself, and was absent-mindedly staring at the papers. He looked up, half vacantly.
“Eh?” he said. “Oh! Why, of course, there is only one—Reprieved.”