That night a full moon rode high in the eastern heavens, and near it shone a great, coruscating star of peculiar brightness. Garthwaite, hanging over a parapet of London bridge, lifted his eyes from the quiet wash of the river to the still quieter skies, and took the radiance of star and moon as a good omen. All the evening he had felt in particularly good spirits; the splendour of the things overhead was rapidly lifting him from that state to an even better one; the silvery moonlight began to assume quite a roseate warmth. Around him the London clocks suddenly struck eleven strokes. When the last of them had died away, Garthwaite began to hum a gay tune. And while he hummed it he looked down at the steamer which, that very night—or, to be precise, at 5.30 next morning—was to carry him away from London and England on the first stage of a journey to another country and a new life.
A new life! That was the vision which made his spirits dance in sympathy with the little silver-tipped ripples on the brown river. Of the old one he had experienced enough; in future he meant everything to be new. And it gave him no concern when he looked in upon himself and remembered that he was, to all intents and purposes, a fugitive, an absconding official, carrying away with him, in one form or another, a vast amount of money which belonged to a far-off town wherein for many years he had been trusted as probably no public servant had ever been trusted before.
To have felt concern over a matter like that would have been to show compunction; and to compunction, remorse, consideration for anything or anybody but himself, Garthwaite was wholly a stranger. His one feeling, as he lounged and lingered on London Bridge that beautiful moonlighted night was of joy, delight, pleasure that his scheme had carried so admirably.
For many a long year—in fact, ever since he had entered their employ as a clerk —Garthwaite had meant to rob the Firminster Corporation, not in a small, mean, pettifogging fashion, but in a big, generous way. It was for that reason that he had been such a good clerk, toiling early and late, making and keeping himself thoroughly acquainted with the inner workings and details of the borough accountant’s office. And in time his assiduity, his carefulness, his grasp of everything connected with his work, had led to his advancement. That advancement had been considerable—by big steps.
For two years previous to this particular night, Garthwaite had been not only borough accountant, but borough treasurer. Firminster was not a place of any great size, but an ancient borough of twelve thousand inhabitants has a considerable rateable value, and Garthwaite had had to deal with large sums of money. And at last, as the result of great care, forethought, skilful scheming and deep knowledge of exactly what he was doing, he had dealt with the town funds in such a fashion that before very long the town authorities would be looking for them in vain.
But not just yet. If there was anything that Garthwaite prided himself upon it was his attention to detail, and he had so worked and arranged matters that no one would find out anything until he was beyond all reach. He was entitled to a month’s holiday every year; he had made his final dispositions just before leaving for that holiday. Then he proceeded openly, even ostentatiously, to Scarborough—to enjoy himself.
But on the very night of his arrival at Scarborough he had boarded the steamer which plies twice a week between Sunderland and London, and calls at Scarborough to pick up passengers. Once in London, he had booked a passage in one of the Batavier steamers which run from the Thames to Rotterdam; from Rotterdam he meant to make his way to Vienna, where he had already invested much money at call; from Vienna he was going to Trieste, on his way to South America.
It was all beautifully arranged, all splendidly conceived, and it was working out excellently. There, beneath his very feet, lay the steamer which was to carry him out of England; she was being loaded up at that moment with merchandise. At high water in the morning—5.30—she would drop down the Thames, and he would be well on the way to the new life concerning which he had formulated rare dreams. For Garthwaite was as yet a young man, as things go nowadays, and he had notions— notions of a luxurious existence in the tropics, of a life of ease and pleasure, vastly different to that which he lived in far-off, drab-coloured, sleepy old Firminster.
He laughed gently as he remembered how very cleverly he had done everything —laughed until he yawned. And when he yawned he turned away from the bridge towards his hotel. There, again, in making choice of his hotel for the night, he had shown his usual ability in concealment. Instead of going up West, or even to the Strand, or into the heart of the city, Garthwaite had deliberately sought out a riverside hostelry, old-fashioned, and of no great size, wherein to spend his last few hours in England. It stood almost under the shadow of the Monument; it was within five minutes’ walk of the wharf whereat his steamer lay. He would have nothing to do but rise at five o’clock, pick up his suit-case and go aboard.
If he had cared to do so, he could have slept aboard, but a steward whom he had interviewed on that point had told him that the loading of goods went on all night, and Garthwaite was one of those careful individuals who are particular about getting at least four hours of sound slumber every time they lay heads on pillows. He went off to get that slumber now, and repaired straight to his bedroom. And he had scarcely entered it, and had not yet locked its door upon himself, when a tap, gentle yet assertive, sounded upon the panels.
Garthwaite’s nerves were always in excellent order; he was neither startled nor surprised, and he bade whoever was without to enter. He expected to see chambermaid, or boots; instead, when the door opened and he looked up from the easy-chair into which he had just dropped in order to take off his shoes, he found himself confronting the slightly smiling face of one of his own clerks.
Garthwaite knew that face and that smile very well indeed. They belonged to a clerk named Tisdale, whose chief personal characteristics were a shock head of foxy hair, a pair of shifty, burrowing eyes and a perpetual grin, which would have been utterly fatuous if it had not been so maliciously sly and meaning. Garthwaite, in the bygone days, had often felt his hand literally itch to slap this fellow’s face because of that smile; he now experienced a strong desire to sweep it out of his field of vision with something heavier. Instead, he put a sudden curb on his feelings and strove to suppress his intense surprise.
“Well?” he growled, “what are you doing here?” Tisdale, who had carefully closed the bedroom door, leaned back against it and rubbed his hands together.
“Evening, Mr. Garthwaite,” he said, softly. “This is—a little unexpected, I think, sir.”
Garthwaite finished the taking-off of his shoes and put his feet into a pair of bedroom slippers. When he had finished that small task his mind was made up.
“Now, then,” he said, “what brings you here, and what are you after? Out with it!”
Tisdale smiled more widely than ever and rubbed his hands again.
“After—you!” he answered. “And—there you are! Plain speaking, I think, Mr. Garthwaite.”
“Let’s have more of it,” said Garthwaite. He quietly reached around to a hip pocket, drew out a revolver and let his visitor see it. “You’ve come into this room, Tisdale,” he went on, “but you’ll only go out with my permission. See this? For two pins I’ll shoot you!”
“No occasion for violence, Mr. Garthwaite,” remarked Tisdale, urbanely. “None whatever, sir. And I’m not afraid, not me! See here,” he reached out, drew a chair to him and sat down. “I’ve a good deal to say, you know.”
“Talk and be hanged to you,” snapped Garthwaite. He saw that somehow or other Tisdale had got the whip hand of him and that he would have to submit. “What is it?” he snarled. “You’ve followed me?”
“Quite so, sir,” replied Tisdale. “I’ll explain. You see, Mr. Garthwaite,” he went on, with another of his smiles which Garthwaite so much loathed, “you see, sir, you’ve been living in a fool’s paradise, if you’ll excuse the expression. You thought nobody suspected you. But I suspected you—and so did Mr. Earnshaw.”
Garthwaite, in spite of his strong nerves, started at that. Earnshaw was a prominent member of the Firminster Corporation; he was chairman of the finance committee; a man of action. He had been a close, personal friend, and to hear that he suspected him (Garthwaite) was a real surprise. Garthwaite could only stare at his informant.
“Well?” he said at last. “Well?”
“Just so,” returned Tisdale. “The only difference between me and Mr. Earnshaw, however, was that he knew nothing, and I knew—something, eh?”
“How much?” asked Garthwaite, sullenly.
Tisdale drew his chair a little nearer his prisoner, taking care not to leave the immediate neighbourhood of the door.
“A lot!” he answered. “More than I could tell you just now. But—I know about the waterworks money, and the corporation debenture stock, and the——”
“That’ll do,” interrupted Garthwaite, curtly. “I’m not thirsting for more of your knowledge, confound you! About Earnshaw? You say he knows nothing?”
“Nothing certain—only suspects,” replied Tisdale. “He’s just getting to the dangerous stage. It was Earnshaw that set me on to you—that’s why I’m here.”
“How could Earnshaw set you on to me?” demanded Garthwaite. “You’ve been conspiring with him!”
“Honour bright, no!” affirmed Tisdale. “I’m a deal too clever, Mr. Garthwaite, to let anybody know what I know. I haven’t said a word to Earnshaw or to a soul of what I’ve found out.”
Garthwaite unconsciously heaved a sigh of relief. So long as Earnshaw did not actually know real facts—
“Well?” he said presently, “about this setting on?”
“Yes,” replied Tisdale. “You see, that day you set off on your holiday to Scarborough—day before yesterday, of course—Earnshaw called me into his office, and, after binding me to secrecy, told me that he wanted me to go to Scarborough and keep an eye on you. If we met, I was furnished with a good excuse,—I’d exchanged holidays with Hopkinson, in the gas department. Of course, I set off for Scarborough at once—Earnshaw gave me plenty of money for expenses, in case I should want it. Of course, I soon spotted you, and I watched you board the steamer from Sunderland to London.”
“You didn’t surely get on it yourself!” exclaimed Garthwaite, wonderingly. “I never saw you.”
Tisdale smiled evilly and tapped the side of his nose.
“No fear,” he answered. “I know a trick worth three of that. I ain’t a fool, Mr. Garthwaite. You see, it didn’t take me five minutes to find out that the steamer didn’t call anywhere between Scarborough and London, so you were safe once you’d got on board. I watched you sail and then I walked up to the station and took the next express for King’s Cross, and I was in London and down here at the riverside—to meet you! And, of course, I met you and followed you up to this hotel and when you’d strolled out this evening I strolled in and booked the next room. Eh?”
“And—what next?” asked Garthwaite.
Tisdale rubbed his hands together and smiled. He made no answer, but he went on smiling.
“Does Earnshaw know of your movements?” asked Garthwaite, suddenly.
“No!” replied Tisdale, with alacrity. “He doesn’t! Nobody knows. I’m playing my own game, not his.”
“I can give your game a name, my lad,” remarked Garthwaite, pinning the shifty eyes. “It’s a name in one word—blackmail.”
Tisdale laughed very softly.
“We’ve all of us a right to do what we can for ourselves, Mr. Garthwaite,” he said. “That’s common sense, sir. I’m out on my own. Never mind Earnshaw—hang Firminster! If you like to make it worth my while to—eh?”
“How much do you want?” asked Garthwaite. He had known it would come to this from the moment of Tisdale’s entrance, and he had been thinking hard all the time under the superstructure of that assured knowledge. “Name your price! Not that I shall pay it, you know.”
For a few minutes Tisdale appeared to be seeking inspiration from various points of the bedroom to which he turned his shifty eyes. And when his face was again projected in Garthwaite’s direction the eyes were focussed on some spot above Garthwaite’s head.
“Well, of course,” answered Tisdale—“of course, out of those debentures alone you have made——”
“Hang the debentures!” exclaimed Garthwaite. He was playing a part and he meant to play it thoroughly. “Put it into plain language! How much do you want to hold your tongue?”
“Two thousand—cash down!” answered Tisdale, promptly.
Garthwaite got up and moved over to the far side of the bedroom, which was in shadow. On a table there stood a bottle of whisky, a syphon of mineral water and some clean glasses. He picked up the whisky, carried it back to the hearthrug and, taking a corkscrew from his waistcoat pocket, drew the cork under Tisdale’s nose. He happened to know that the clerk was fond of a drink and he heard him sniff as the aroma of the spirit permeated the room.
“Now, if I give you a couple of thousand—in bank notes,” he said, standing there with the bottle in one hand and the corkscrew in the other, “what will you do?”
“Not go back to Firminster, you bet!” replied Tisdale.
“I said ‘what will you do?’” replied Garthwaite.
“I shall do what you’re doing—hook it,” said Tisdale. “Colonies—something of that sort.”
“At once?”
“To-morrow morning. That is—if there’s no bother about the notes. I could get them turned into gold—or as good, I suppose?”
“There will be no bother about the notes,” said Garthwaite, with a dry laugh. “Not there.” He moved back to the shadow, and began to play about with the glasses and the syphon. “All right,” he said suddenly, “I’ll give you that amount.”
“Now?” said Tisdale.
“Just now,” replied Garthwaite. “As I said, you can turn them into gold whenever you like. You’re as safe as—as I am. That is—if you go off at once.”
“Trust me!” said Tisdale.
He watched the defaulter narrowly as he drew out a bulky pocket-book and selected an envelope, which he tossed over the room to him with a curt order to count its contents. And engaged in that pleasant task, Tisdale did not see Garthwaite quietly abstract a small object from another compartment of the pocket-book, and drop it into the whisky, which he had just poured into one of the glasses.
“There’s exactly two thousand in that envelope,” said Garthwaite. “Twenty onehundreds. Say when, Tisdale!”
He turned, holding the glass in one hand, the syphon in the other. But instead of looking at Tisdale he was watching a curious spreading of some substance in the whisky. Tisdale, across the room, could see nothing; but Garthwaite saw the substance melt, spread, mingle. He pressed the syphon, and the mineral water splashed loudly.
“Seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, all correct,” said Tisdale, checking his notes. “I—that’s enough, thank you. And—good luck, Mr. Garthwaite—to both of us.”
Garthwaite made no answer. He handed the glass to his visitor, saw him take a deep drink, and turned away to mix another glass for himself. And already his own heart was beginning to thump, and his breath to feel hampered, and a big hammer was beating in his temple—for Death had come into that silent room.
Garthwaite, like many another man of busy life, had a hobby which absorbed all his spare time. He was a dabbler in experimental chemistry, and his labours had for some years been devoted to researches in poisons. In the pocket-book from which he had taken the bank notes he carried two tiny capsules, each filled with a highly concentrated poison. He carried them in case of a really desperate emergency—the really desperate emergency had arisen. He had made up his mind that the spy should never go out of that room alive; and now, as he stood there mixing his drink, waiting for a certain sound, he was reckoning on his own chances. They were good, they were sure, nothing could have been better. In his methodical way he tabulated them:
No one knew that Tisdale had tracked him.
None of the hotel people had seen him and Tisdale together.
He was certain that Tisdale had taken the utmost care to knock at his door unobserved.
It would be hours after his own departure that Tisdale’s dead body would be found.
When Tisdale’s dead body was found, there would be nothing to connect him (Garthwaite) with it.
No doctor or expert in the world could tell that Tisdale had been poisoned. Within an hour of his death all trace of that particular poison would have disappeared, and no post-mortem examination could possibly reveal or discover it.
He regained full control over his nerves as he came to the end of these conclusions, and his voice was steady enough when he presently spoke.
“Drink all right, Tisdale?” he asked.
Before Tisdale could answer, Tisdale died—died as he set down his empty glass on the dining-table at his side; died with a queer little murmuring sigh as Garthwaite darted forward and caught him, swaying back in his chair. And Garthwaite let him gently and cautiously downward to the floor, and thanked his own particular devil that the capsule had done its work so speedily.
But there was work for him to do now. There he was, alone in a small London hotel with a dead man’s body, which he could not carry away as if it had been a parcel, which must inevitably be discovered, revealed to the police, to a coroner and his jury, with all the usual accompaniments of wonder and inquiry and speculation. The situation was one of peril; an ordinary man would have been frightened out of his wits by it. But Garthwaite was far from being an ordinary man, and he possessed coolness, resource, and fertility of conception beyond the average degree. The main thing was accomplished; all that remained now was to secure his own safety.
He went to work calmly and methodically. To begin with, he examined every pocket in the dead man’s clothing. There were a few papers in Tisdale’s possession, but Garthwaite carefully collected every scrap of them, tore them into small bits, and burned them in his grate. The dead man’s purse, loose money, watch and chain, personal effects, he left on him; there was nothing in these things, not even an initial, that could lead to Tisdale’s immediate identification.
Garthwaite’s notion was that any identification should be delayed indefinitely. He saw clearly ahead—there would be the usual fuss about the body of an unknown man, and it would be days, perhaps longer, before Tisdale and Firminster came to be connected.
It was long after midnight before Garthwaite cautiously opened the door, stole out, locked it behind him, and went into the next room. He knew that was Tisdale’s room, because the first object which he saw there was an overcoat, which he well knew to be the dead man’s, thrown carelessly over the bed. Garthwaite went carefully through that coat, then through a small handbag which stood on the dressing-table. There was nothing in either of them that could reveal anything. He took some simple toilet articles out of the bag, and spread them on the dressingtable and washstand; then he hung the overcoat behind the door. And, that done, he turned out the light again, and went away, leaving the door wide open. The time had come for transferring the body from one room to the other.
Garthwaite stood for some time in the corridor, watching and listening. In one of the neighbouring rooms he heard a faint breathing; from another came a gentle, steady snoring. There was only the faintest glimmer of light around him; in that house they were evidently careful of the gas.
He had turned down his own light to a mere spark when he left his room, and it was in almost entire darkness that he presently carried Tisdale’s body from one door to the next. He accomplished this swiftly and silently. It was with accelerated swiftness that he undressed the dead man, laid him in the bed, and covered him up in a natural position. There was a transom over the door. Some hours later, when no response could be got to repeated knocking, somebody would look through the glass of that transom, and Garthwaite desired that Tisdale should seem to be wrapped in heavy slumber. And as the body was still flexible, he disposed its limbs in a fashion which would suggest sleep rather than death.
“Careful attention to detail is the thing!” soliloquised Garthwaite. “Lucky for me that I have trained myself to it!”
In pursuance of this careful attention, he proceeded to dispose the dead man’s clothing about the room. He placed the purse under the pillow, the loose money on the dressing-table; by its side he laid the watch and chain, and he took care to wind up the watch; and finally—a master stroke this, in his opinion!—he deposited Tisdale’s boots on the mat outside the door, took the key away, and retreated to his own room, where he immediately mixed himself a stiff drink.
The two thousand pounds’ worth of bank notes which he had handed to Tisdale’s suddenly nerveless grip, Garthwaite took up and restored to his pocketbook. Then he made everything ready for his departure at five o’clock. He had paid his bill overnight; there was nothing for him to do now but to take up his effects and walk to the steamer when the time came. And, all being ready, Garthwaite lay down, dressed as he was, and for three hours he slept as peacefully as if he were an innocent child. He woke to the required minute—a habit of his. Within five minutes—the exact time then being 4.50—he had left his room and the hotel, and was shivering a little in the street outside. And there, shivering too, but from quite another cause, a man came up to him—obviously a man who had made his bed on the embankment, or in some corner out of official sight.
“Carry your bag, guv’nor?” suggested this night-bird. “Give us a chance! Bin out all night, and ain’t got a penny for a bite.”
“No!” snapped Garthwaite, so decidedly that for a moment the man slunk off. But hunger was strong upon him, and he crept up again, and followed—followed across the street, and down another street, always entreating and begging, until the wharf came in sight, and with it the Rotterdam steamer.
It would have been well for Garthwaite if he had tossed that man a shilling as soon as he accosted him—he would have gone away with it in quest of a coffeestall, and left Garthwaite to pursue his flight unobserved. But Garthwaite had never given a penny in charity in his life, and he paid no further heed to the beseecher of it. He marched on to the wharf, while the man in his rear cursed him and slunk back to the hotel to look for less flinty people.
Garthwaite forgot all about that man as soon as he had turned his back upon him. Also he put Tisdale out of his mind, too. The last time he thought of Tisdale was when he went to the side of the steamer, took the key of Tisdale’s bedroom from his waistcoat pocket, and dropped it into the river. That was as the steamer passed Greenwich. From that time Garthwaite became light-hearted, optimistic and appreciative of the pleasures to be derived from a long day’s sailing over the North Sea.
That steamer was a slow moving affair and noon had passed, and Garthwaite, whose naturally good appetite improved with every mile, had eaten a heavy lunch before she came abreast of Margate. There, for a second, he allowed himself one brief thought of what might be going on at the hotel which he had quitted nine hours before. Of course, by that time they had discovered Tisdale’s dead body. They had no doubt let him sleep on, undisturbed, until noon—there would be nothing odd about that. But about, or soon after noon, they would be suspicious, and the chambermaid would call the manageress, and the manageress would look through the transom above the door, and as Tisdale lay so motionless——
Garthwaite laughed. He pictured the hotel folks and their perplexity; he pictured the doctors who would be called in; he pictured the police——
“Hallo!” exclaimed a man who stood at Garthwaite’s side on deck, staring towards Margate and its stone pier. “What’s up? We’re slowing down and there’s a tug coming out to us!”
Garthwaite began to stare landward in company with everybody else. The steamer was certainly slackening in speed, and there, just as certainly, was a small tug puffing briskly in its direction. It was quite a small tug, but a very fast one, and before long those on board the steamer could see that it carried two or three men who were plainly not members of its small crew. And presently the man who stood at Garthwaite’s side let out another exclamation, mingled with a sly laugh.
“Ha, ha!” he chuckled. “I see what this game is! Those chaps in plain clothes there on the tug are detectives—London men, too, I’ll bet! But who’s the fellow with them?”
Garthwaite, whose sight was not so good as the other man’s, moved further along the deck. Detectives! And stopping the steamer! Could it be possible that ——
The next instant Garthwaite knew what this unexpected development sprang from. There, on the deck of the tug, now close to the steamer, standing between two solid-looking men, was the night-bird, who had asked for the chance of earning a few coppers. He was looking up, and as he looked he saw Garthwaite looking down, and he touched one of his companions on the arm and pointed eagerly.
Garthwaite knew what had happened then. Everything had gone wrong. The hotel folk had found Tisdale earlier than he had allowed for. The discovery had got noised abroad. This confounded loafer had heard it, and remembered the man who came out of the hotel and boarded the Rotterdam steamer, and he had hastened to give his news. And the police had hurried down to Margate to intercept the steamer as she passed, and they had brought the man with them to identify him!
He walked quietly away to a corner of the deck and drew out his pocket-book. He had a sure and certain belief that if he once fell into the hands of the law he would never escape those hands, and for such a fate he had no appetite. And so he felt for the second of the terrible capsules. Everything within him was crying out that the game was up. Very well. He would take his own way.
The next instant Garthwaite jumped as if a hand had been laid on him. The capsule was not there! He searched frantically through the pocket-book; he even dropped some papers and notes, and gave no more heed to them than if they had been rubbish. He must have spilled that capsule on the table in his room when he took out the other! And if he had, and if it were found, and if it were analysed—why, then——
He turned suddenly as a commotion arose behind him. The men from the tug had come aboard, and as he twisted round on them and the steamer’s officers the nightbird to whom he had grudged a sixpence raised a dirty finger and pointed at him for the second time.
Garthwaite, oddly enough, remembered that dirty finger and its queer, jerking movement most clearly of all his last memories when, some weeks later, a few men marched him out of a cell one morning, and made short work in hanging him.