The tides of life were at low water mark with Melchior Rosenbaum. As he said to himself, he was up against it. There was no use in going through the farce of feeling in one pocket after another of his one suit of clothes in search of stray sixpences; all his pockets had been empty for three weary—and very hungry days. Nor was there any use in searching the chest of drawers in his bed-sitting room in quest of coppers; sometimes when he had been comparatively flush of money, Melchior, with lordly indifference, had flung pence and halfpence amongst his socks and his collars, but he knew very well that there was not so much as a farthing there now. Yesterday had exhausted that particular mine. He had found twopence inside a folded shirt and had immediately fed his ravenous stomach with a penny roll and a penny glass of milk. Since then he had had nothing save the cup of tea and three slices—fortunately thick ones—of bread and butter which his long-suffering landlady doled out to him every morning. And it was now evening, and Melchior was desperately famished.
Like all sufferers in like case, Melchior thought rapidly over his chances of raising the wind. They were bad—hopelessly bad. Melchior had no settled employment. He was an inventor. He invented mechanical toys and games for children; there were several efforts of genius lying in a more or less unfinished state on his table at the moment. Sometimes he did pretty well—sometimes, as at present, he had awful turns of bad luck. But this was the worst, the very worst, he had ever known. He had been hard up for a month; almost penniless for a fortnight; utterly penniless since yesterday. He had nobody to turn to. It was useless to try to borrow half-a-crown from the landlady; he had not paid back the last shilling he had raised in that way, and he owed her a whole month’s rent. It was useless to try to borrow from his cousin Isidore; he owed Isidore eighteen shillings, which, with interest, meant twenty. He had nothing to pawn—he had already pawned every single pawnable object.
Thinking of his uncle, the pawnbroker, made Melchior think of his real and proper uncle, Mr. Solomon Rosenbaum. It gave him a cold sweat to think of him, for Uncle Solly was a terrible old fellow when asked for money. He had money—lots of money. He was a man of property—house property. He was a bachelor, too. He lived in no style at all; he was housed in a little two-room flat near Gower Street station; his yearly expenses, all added together, could not amount to a hundred pounds a year, said Melchior. And he was taking in hundreds—hundreds!—a year in rents. What did he do with it? Why didn’t he distribute it to his nephews? Miser! —that’s what he was, old Uncle Solly, a miserable, grasping miser! Rolling in good red and yellow gold, the old skinflint, while he, Melchior, of his own flesh and blood, was wanting bread!
Walking about his room, hands thrust in his empty pockets, Melchior’s troubled eyes suddenly encountered a cheap calendar which hung above his fireless grate. September 29!—Quarter Day! The very day on which Uncle Solly collected his rents, always in person. The old man would have heaps of money that night; the very thought of it, gold, silver, cheques, banknotes, made Melchior utter frightful groans. Surely, surely, on a day when he had made so much himself, Uncle Solly would spare a little for one of his own tribe, were it but a few shillings now! But at the mere notion of asking for even a copper, Melchior felt the sweat break out on him again. He remembered how the old man had driven him out on the last occasion on which he had begged for five shillings.
At that moment something happened. Downstairs the landlady was cooking fresh herrings for another lodger’s delectation and regalement; a whiff of them penetrated through the keyhole of Melchior’s door. And, with something like a howl, Melchior snatched up his hat, tore from the room, took the stairs in a succession of bounds and leaps, swept from the house, and vanished in the autumn twilight.
Melchior lodged in a drab and shabby street in the top end of Edgware Road. Being literally penniless when he rushed out of his lodging, there was nothing to do but to foot it to Uncle Solly. But Melchior knew every turn and twist of that part of London, and he made a direct cut across the outer portion of Lisson Grove towards the desired haven, walking at top speed in order to keep up his courage. On the way he frequently passed shops whereat they sold things to eat. He tried to keep his eye off these places, but once, as he drew near the end of his journey, he inadvertently caught sight of a dish of mutton pies at twopence each, and he growled like a famishing cur and sped onward at an accelerated pace. This time he would have money—were it but a shilling—out of Uncle Solly; if need were, he would weep tears of blood to him.
Uncle Solly lived in a shabby tenement house in one of those dismal streets which are attached to the purlieus of Euston. Why a man of such affluence should reside in such a place was a puzzle to Melchior and Isidore, his nephews, who, had they possessed one-fourth of his means, would have tenanted a nice flat in Maida Vale. But there Uncle Solly lived—all alone—and had lived ever so many years; he had lived there before Melchior and Isidore were born. And except when he was rent collecting or pottering about his property, he was always at home.
Before entering the open door of the tenement house, Melchior took a careful look around. There was a light in the window of Uncle Solly’s sitting-room, high up on the top floor. Melchior heaved one desperate sigh, and plunged up the dirty staircase. And from the street door to Uncle Solly’s landing he did not meet, see or hear one single soul.
Before he actually reached it, Melchior saw that the door of Uncle Solly’s sitting-room was slightly open, a good foot-breadth of yellow light shone through the opening. Everything was very quiet. No sound came from the room. And Melchior, whose footwear was necessarily of the thinnest, crept up the last few stairs as silently as a shadow, and with infinite precaution peeped into the parlour.
Empty! Not a soul to be seen. No Uncle Solly—nobody. But on the table, not two yards away from Melchior’s straining eyes, lay—money! Gold, banknotes, cheques, silver, copper! Melchior saw the meaning of the situation at a glance. The old man was reckoning up his quarter-day takings—there was his ledger with a pen lying across it—and he had interrupted his labours to go into his bedroom, but he must be there. How soon would he emerge, how soon?
It was all over in the twinkling of one of Melchior’s bright black eyes. Noiselessly and swiftly he slipped through the door. Just as noiselessly, just as swiftly, one of his thin, long-fingered hands laid hold of a fistful of gold, while the other picked up a couple of coppers. With a similar swiftness he was out of the room again and down the stairs, unseen by mortal eye. And once outside that house he was round one corner, and making for another with the cunning and celerity of a fox. In less than three minutes Melchior had crossed Euston Road, plunged into the underground, and was slapping one of the stolen pennies down in exchange for a third single.
Melchior came out of the underground at Edgware Road Station within ten minutes of his hurried flight from Uncle Solly’s parlour. He had recovered his breath and his equanimity by that time. Already his sharp wits—further sharpened by hunger—assured him that he was safe. No one had seen him enter or leave the house. He was sure that Uncle Solly, who was very deaf, had not heard that cat-like tread in his parlour. And here he was a good mile away, almost at once. Luck! Why, was ever such luck before?
He stood for a moment to finally pull himself together and his eyes, wandering around in the murky streets caught sight of the back windows of Reggiori’s Restaurant. The gleam of those windows made Melchior positively wolfish. He chinked the gold in his pockets. Well, why not, for once? Such places were above him as a rule, but not to-night. He rejoiced in the fact that his clothes and linen were quite good enough to ensure him admittance and attention at any good place of public resort. That was an advantage. Without further delay Melchior crossed the narrow street, slipped into the restaurant, and in another minute was studying the menu which an unsuspicious waiter handed to him with a polite bow.
It was a wonder to Melchior that he did not fall upon the bread basket and the cruet—he felt as if he could have eaten a mustard plaster. But he restrained himself admirably. Soup? Yes, he would have soup—a thick soup—and he would have his favourite dish—boiled chicken, with rice and mushrooms, and he would have a bottle—a bottle of burgundy—the best Beaune. Let the waiter bring that at once. And while the waiter shot off to fetch it Melchior laid hands on a hunk of bread, sprinkled a pinch of salt on a big nob of it, and began, at last, to appease his awful craving.
Melchior was no fool. He ate a goodly lump of bread before he put his lips to the red wine. But when at last he had slowly sipped a glassful he became conscious of new strength, new power, new ideas. Oh, what a stroke of luck—what a blessed, blessed stroke of luck! Could it really be? Was it, after all, a dream? Would he awake and find himself in his fireless room, and——
“S’elp me!” exclaimed a familiar voice. “If it ain’t Melky! Here, what’s the meaning of it?”
Melchior started and looked up from his soup to confront his cousin Isidore, a young gentleman of bold countenance, aggressive manner, and sharp eyes, dressed in something of sporting fashion, and wearing a horseshoe pin of imitation diamonds in his smart four-in-hand cravat. He was bending over the table and scrutinising Melchior as if he were a rare curiosity; from Melchior his eyes turned to the bottle of wine.
“S’elp me!” he exclaimed again. “Abottle!”
Melchior motioned Isidore to come into his corner, and, as a preliminary to pleasant conversation, drew out a sovereign and slipped it along the tablecloth.
“Your quid, Issy,” he murmured. “Here, I’ll stand you a dinner if you like!”
Isidore fingered the sovereign exactly for one-half second before he transferred it to his waistcoat pocket. Then he looked at Melchior with slowly widening eyes.
“May I never!” he exclaimed. “What’s it all about, Melky?”
Melchior lapped up his last drop of soup, and beckoned to the waiter.
“Oh, I just sold one of my inventions,” he answered carelessly. “What you fancy, Issy? Order what you like. And what’ll you drink? Give your order.”
Isidore, who had entered the restaurant intent on an underdone beef steak and a pint of bitter ale, with accompaniments, made a careful inspection of the bill of fare.
“Give me a nice sole—a fat one,” he commanded. “And after that I’ll take jugged hare—mind there’s plenty of thick gravy, and red currant jelly with it. And— what sort of wine’s that, Melky—good?”
“Extra!” affirmed Melchior. “Try a glass.”
The waiter brought a clean glass, and Isidore sampled, smacking his lips.
“That’ll do,” he said. “Bring another bottle.” He rubbed his hands gleefully when the waiter had gone, and putting one of them under the tablecloth, squeezed his cousin’s knee. “Melky, old sport,” he whispered, “How much did it run to?”
But Melchior shook his curly head.
“No,” he said firmly. “’Tain’t your business, Issy. You got your eighteen bob, and two bob interest, and you’re going to get your dinner—and a good ’un, too, with wine. And I’ll stand cigars and liqueurs, too, if you like. But I ain’t going to tell my business to nobody. Nice bit, anyway.”
“What was it?” asked Isidore.
“Model of machine gun—for kids,” replied Melky, quite ready with a lie. “Shoots peas—cute notion!”
“Who’s bought it?” inquired Issy, lifting his glass.
“Mendel,” answered Melky thoughtlessly. “He’ll do well out of it when Christmas comes around.”
“Well, here’s luck,” said Issy, and drank more wine. “And hoping things’ll still further improve, Melky. You always was a genius!”
“How’s things with you?” demanded Melky. “Good?”
“Fair,” replied Issy. “Backed three winners since Monday, and I’m doing a bit in the horse line. Just been up the road now to see a feller what’s got a horse to sell, ’cause I know another feller as wants one. Cheerio! Melky—we ain’t doing so dusty. But I say—take my tip. Don’t you go a-selling of them inventions of yours right out! What you oughter do is to have so much down, and a royalty on every article sold. See?”
“Think so?” asked Melky. He was so thoroughly fed and warmed and restored by that time that he had forgotten all about Uncle Solly, and was almost convinced that his lies were truths. “Might be a good thing, that, too. I got a splendid invention now—it’s at Fildridge’s. They’re considering of it—might hear about that any time. If they took it up and manufactured it properly, shooks! they’d sell thousands—tens o’ thousands!”
“What ’ud it sell at?” asked Issy.
“Shilling—popular toy,” answered Melky. “It’s a sure thing—if taken up.”
Issy’s fat sole appeared just then, and for half an hour he and Melky gobbled and drank side by side in full contentment. They consumed much Italian pastry when the solid things were over, and they settled down to coffee and liqueurs and cigars, and to the discussion of money matters, and by the time Melky had paid the bill and presented the waiter with sixpence, they both felt that life should certainly show patches of gold—now and then.
Issy walked home with Melky to his lodgings, talking confidentially. Melky asked him in, and sent him upstairs, while he himself went down to the basement to pay his landlady and borrow an armful of wood wherewith to light his fire. When he joined Issy, Issy held up a letter.
“On your table,” he said. “Melky, old man, it’s from Fildridge’s! There’s their name on the flap.”
Melky flung his dry wood into the grate and tore the letter open. He ran his eyes over the contents and let out a wild scream of joy.
“They’re going to take it up!” he yelled. “I’m going there to-morrow morning and settle the terms. They suggest so much down and a royalty.”
Issy threw his rakish billycock in the air. Then he seized Melky’s arm.
“Hang the fire, Melky, old sport!” he shouted. “Come on! We’ll go around to the best pub in the neighbourhood and drink your health. And s’elp me, I’ll pay!”
Melchior woke next morning with a headache. He and Isidore had sought and found a select tavern in Maida Vale. They had drunk many healths and smoked several cigars, and the unwonted indulgence had produced evil effects on Melchior. At 9 o’clock his landlady, mollified in his favour by the settling up of the night before, brought him a breakfast of bacon and eggs. Melchior looked at the eggs with disgust and at the bacon with aversion. It was all he could do to nibble a bit of toast and sip a cup of tea.
And as he nibbled and tasted, he picked up the halfpenny newspaper which was tucked in the toast rack and listlessly opened it to read the news. Suddenly his jaw dropped, the tea cup trembled in his hand and he let out a hollow groan. For this was what Melchior’s eyes had fallen upon:
MYSTERIOUS ROBBERYNEAR EUSTON. “Late last night the police authorities were informed of a mysterious theft, which is believed to have taken place between a quarter to eight and 9 o’clock in the evening. The circumstances are of a peculiar nature. Mr. Solomon Rosenbaum, a property owner of that neighbourhood, who occupies a two-room flat in a house in Penkington Street, had, it being quarter-day, been collecting his rents yesterday afternoon and evening, and at half-past seven o’clock was entering the various particulars in his ledger. He had occasion to go into his bedroom, and when he did so he left on his table in the parlour a considerable sum of money in cheques, banknotes, gold and silver. Mr. Rosenbaum, who is very deaf, either fainted or had some sort of seizure on entering the bedroom, and he remained there, helpless and unconscious for some time; when he came to himself and was able to move back into the parlour it was a little after 9 o’clock. Upon examining the money which he had left on the table, Mr. Rosenbaum found that eleven pounds in gold were missing. He immediately sent for the police, but up to a late hour last evening no arrest had been made and no light thrown on the subject. No suspicious character was seen to enter or leave the house and we understand that Mr. Rosenbaum refuses to suspect any of the people who live in it. The extraordinary feature of the case is that the thief, who ever he was, might, had he liked, have carried off everything on the table, which, we are informed, represented a total of over two hundred pounds.”
If Melchior had felt shaky before he had picked up that newspaper, he felt ten times more so when he let it drop from his hands. For everything was all wrong! Things were not turning out right. The course of events was not what he had designed. “Mr. Rosenbaum refuses to suspect any of the people in the house”— horror! Why, that was positively wicked of Uncle Solly! It was his duty to suspect the people who lived in the house—of course, it was! And if he didn’t suspect them —why, he’d begin to suspect—ah, whom couldn’t he begin to suspect? He might even be thoughtless enough to begin to suspect him, Melchior—which, of course, on any grounds open to Uncle Solly, would be utterly unreasonable.
Melchior thrust his hands into his pockets, fingered the considerable remains of the money, and reflected. And presently he got up and hid all but a few shillings in a safe place—to wit, within the body of one of his mechanical toys, amongst the wood and sawdust stuffing. You never know what mayn’t happen, he said to himself, and the smartest detective would have to think for a long time before he hit on that place. He had just completed this task when the door opened and Melchior turned quickly to see a detective, an amateur one, Isidore.
Isidore, who was much more a man of the world than Melchior, showed no sign of his previous night’s revel. He was dressed in his best; he was groomed and shaved; his clothes and hat were carefully brushed. He was looking fit enough—and his face was very grave. And in one hand he carried another copy of the newspaper which had just caused Melchior such pain, and with an accusing finger directed at it, he held it under his cousin’s nose, and shook his head at him.
“Melky!” he said, in a low, tense voice. “That’s you! You did that. Melky, you deep one! Don’t lie and say you didn’t—at least—not to me, ’cause it ain’t no good, Melky. Not one scrap of good, Melky. ’Cause—I’ve been to Mendel’s this morning.”
These last words, spoken in a still lower, tenser tone, made Melchior Rosenbaum tremble all over. He collapsed on the edge of his bed, white and shivering.
“Yes,” continued Issy, bending over him like an accusing angel. “I been at Mendel’s just now. Oh, Melky, you’re an awful liar, as well as a thief! You didn’t sell no invention to Mendel—no, not for fifteen months. Ah, you can’t get over your cousin Issy, Melky! Do you know what? I was up early this morning seeing after that horse deal, and I buy the halfpenny newspaper as I come home, and I see in it— that! And then,” continued Issy, striking the side of his well-developed nose with his finger, “then I see something else! I see through you, Melky, my clever one! You popped into old Uncle Solly’s room and took that money and then hurried to the restaurant to blue some of it on your proud stomach. Melky—and—Melky, where’s the rest?”
Melky had recovered himself a little during this cousinly exhortation and he now glared sulkily at Issy.
“Don’t I pay for your dinner last night?” he muttered. “Don’t you eat and drink of the best—wine you drink and liqueurs, sixpenny cigars you smoke, and it’s me— me!—what pays. Don’t I give your eighteen bob back to you and two bob more for interest—one hundred and fifty per cent., s’elp me—and don’t I stand whiskies and cigars again when we go to drink my health? And don’t I pay my landlady what I owe her, too? Course I do! How much do you think I got when I pay all them moneys away, then?”
“About eight pound, Melky,” answered Issy with promptitude. “That’s as near as I can reckon it. Come on, now. You’ll share with your cousin Issy, of course. Where is it, Melky?”
Melchior growled and shed a few tears, but he knew Isidore, and presently he rose and disembowelled the mechanical doll, and from the sawdust and stuffing he drew forth eight sovereigns wrapped in cotton wool. He held them out to his cousin in silence and Issy calmly appropriated five of them.
“That’s kind of me, Melky,” he said, hiding the gold away in some inner pocket of his sporting waistcoat. “I ain’t taking half, you see—you had eleven. But, oh, Melky, what a fool you are! There was two hundred there according to the newspaper. Melky, why didn’t you pinch the lot, when you’d such a chance? The chance of a lifetime, Melky. Why, you ain’t fit to do no business for yourself, you ain’t. And it’s a fortunate thing for you that you have your cousin Issy to look after you; it is, indeed! Now Melky, a question. Do you think you’re safe? Let’s know all about it.”
Melky gave a brief account of the visit to Uncle Solly’s, and Issy listened with alert ears. In the end he smiled and nodded with satisfaction.
“Good business!” he said. “I don’t think no harm’ll come to you, Melky. And now just wash and shave yourself and smarten yourself up, and then you and I are going out—what?”
“Of course, I’m going out,” growled Melky. “Ain’t I got a business appointment at Fildridge’s about my invention?”
“And ain’t I going with you to keep it?” said Issy. “’Cause I am, Melky, my son! You ain’t no good at business, but your cousin Issy’ll see you through. Hurry up, and we’ll have a little refreshment on the way, that’ll make you see things rosylike, and—ah, you’ll see what a bargain I’ll make for you, Melky.”
The man who had to do business with Melchior and Isidore Rosenbaum at Fildridge’s came to the conclusion that of all the sharp and astute young men he had ever met these two were the very sharpest. It was useless for him to urge that the putting of a new mechanical toy on the market was a good deal of a lottery. Isidore, who did most of the talking, with occasional whispers to Melchior, first quietly assured himself that Fildridge’s really wanted the thing, and then proceeded to screw the buyer down to terms. Those terms were to be Isidore’s terms and nobody else’s. And at the end of an hour he and Melchior were out of Fildridge’s, and Isidore had banknotes in one pocket and an agreement in another, and he led his cousin to a quiet corner in an adjacent saloon, and, after he had procured drinks and cigars, pulled out both.
“See what I done for you, Melky!” he said. “You wouldn’t ha’ done all that for yourself! One hundred pound on account, and a royalty of one penny on every blessed toy they sell. Melky, you’re going to be a Rothschild. And I’ll be your agent. Go on inventing them little things, Melky, and you and me’ll make fortunes out of ’em!”
“Hand over the notes,” said Melchior uneasily. “And less lip about you and me! Fat lot you got to do with it, Issy. Don’t I invent that toy? Come on, now. I let you do the talking ’cause you gotta better gift of the gab than me, but ain’t I the principal?”
“Commission, Melky, commission!” suggested Issy. “What you going to give me for my commission, now?” He retained a hold on the notes and kept them away from Melchior’s itching fingers. “You oughter give me sixty per cent., Melky—that’s the fair thing!”
Melchior grew pale with fury. He began to curse Issy under his breath. Thereupon Issy folded up the notes, put them in his pocket, felt for, and found, the five sovereigns which he had taken from Melky two hours earlier, and began to chink them.
“All right, Melky,” he said. “Then I give you this five quid back, and I go straight to Uncle Solly, and tell him everything. And as you’ll get twenty years in quod, Melky, and won’t have no use for money there, I’ll take care of this £100 until you come out. I’m sorry for you, Melky. I never thought a cousin of mine ’ud disgrace himself. And for eleven quid too, when he might ha’ had two hundred of the best!”
Melky had to give in. Isidore let him off at fifty per cent. That agreed upon, he carefully counted out five £10 notes, and handed them to Melky with the agreement. After which he put the other five in his pocket and arose.
“Well, so long, Melky,” he said. “I’ve got an engagement. You go home and
begin inventing some things. I’ll come around in a day or two to see how you’re
getting on. Keep your head cool, Melky, and think hard. Maybe we get two
hundred and a twopenny royalty next time.”
With that he went away, and Melchior after swearing quietly for awhile in the
loneliness of the corner wherein these cousinly confidences had taken place, went
away, too, lamenting that Fildridge’s letter had not reached him before he rushed
away from the smell of the cooking herrings. For then he would not have gone to
Uncle Solly’s, and he would never have fallen, and he would never have met that
shark, Issy, and——
Isidore Rosenbaum, going away from this highly satisfactory bit of business, boarded a Cricklewood omnibus and went away up the Edgware Road to attempt another. He got off at a well-known depository for horses, and, with the help of his so-easily earned £50, did a bit of trade. He bought horse-flesh with that fifty, which, an hour later, he sold to another man for seventy—twenty pounds clear profit, chuckled Issy. And at the end of that transaction he blessed Melky for providing him with the means for carrying it out, but he had no thought of giving Melky any commission, not even a dinner. Instead, it being by that time, two o’clock, Issy turned into the nearest good restaurant and proceeded to do himself very well indeed. He had great taste for the flesh pots, Issy, and for the wine jars, too, and having accomplished a most satisfactory morning’s work, he thought that he had an indisputable right to enjoy himself. Wherefore, having eaten until he could eat no more, and having finished a bottle of generous wine, he lingered long in the restaurant, smoking a big cigar, and sipping Chartreuse, and he thought himself a clever fellow and promised himself that he would exploit Melky for all he was worth.
The liquor warmed Issy’s already fertile brain to other schemes. He began to think about Uncle Solly Rosenbaum. Now, Issy knew men nearly as well as he knew horses—which is saying a good deal. He had studied Uncle Solly and he had arrived at certain conclusions about him. Uncle Solly, like nearly all well-to-do men, hated poor relations. He disliked having them about him. The mere knowledge of their poverty irritated him. He always looked at them frowningly, as if their very presence meant a sort of curt demand for money. And Issy, whenever he was hard up—as he often had been—always kept away from his rich relative’s rooms, for he believed that Uncle Solly’s big nose could actually scent poverty, as a mouse can smell cheese. But when he was flush of money, Issy liked to visit Uncle Solly, and to swagger around him a little. He knew very well that this old miser was much more likely to leave his shekels to a young man who could make money, than to one who couldn’t. Issy had a firm conviction that in this world nothing is so certain as that to them that have shall be added, and from those who have not shall be subtracted.
A second glass of Chartreuse and another sixpenny cigar warmed Issy to feelings of adventure. He would go around to see Uncle Solly, and condole with him on his sad loss of eleven quid; incidentally, he would let him know how well he himself was doing. He had no sooner thought of this than he acted upon the thought. Drinking off the last sips of his liqueur and setting his cigar in his full red lips, Issy cocked his hat at the proper angle, buttoned up his smart overcoat, and swaggered out of the restaurant, leaving two pence on the table for the waiter.
Uncle Solly, smoking his pipe by a bit of fire in his dreary-looking sitting-room, glanced suspiciously at his nephew when Issy blustered in. His face cleared, however, when he had taken stock of Issy’s outer man. Prosperity was written largely over Issy, it was clear that he had not come there to borrow money. He allowed Issy to shake hands and clap him on the shoulder; he even graciously allowed him to sit down at his side.
“You doing well?” he asked, inclining his ear-trumpet to his visitor. “Making anything?”
“Extra!” shouted Issy. “Made £20 profit in half an hour this morning.”
“What are you doing?” enquired Uncle Solly. “Peddling jewellery?”
Issy made a face of disgust and raised his voice.
“No!” he vociferated. “Horses! Buying and selling, Uncle Solly. See here. I buy nice horse this morning for fifty quid, and sell him for seventy quid, all within the hour, eh?”
“Where did you get the fifty quid?” demanded Uncle Solly.
“Saved it!” bawled Issy. “I ain’t without money. Do you know what, I got a lotta money, in the savings bank. I’m a capitalist, I am. I ain’t like that fellow Melky, living hand to mouth; soon I’ll begin to buy property like you.”
Uncle Solly twisted his patriarchal face round, and took another look at his nephew, musingly, and Uncle Solly began to think there was something in it.
“Umph!” he grunted. Then he gave Issy another sharp look. “You read in the newspapers this morning?” he asked. “You see that about me?”
“Yes!” shouted Issy. “Not till just this minute I don’t see it, that’s what I come for.”
“What you come for then?” demanded Uncle Solly, alertly. “You don’t know nothing about it, eh?”
“Come to offer my sympathy!” called Issy down the ear-trumpet. “Sorry to hear about it, you know. What you leave all them good moneys on your table for when you wasn’t in the room, Uncle Solly?”
Uncle Solly made a face and groaned.
“I have a fainting fit,” he answered. “I don’t have my dinner till I reckon up my moneys, eh? Then I feel queer, and I go into my chamber to get me a little taste of rum, and I fall down by my bed, what? Then the thief, he put in his nose at my open door, and take my good money, what I can’t afford to lose!”
“You should lock your door when you count your money,” said Issy. “That’s what I always do. Of course, some of your neighbours——”
Uncle Solly growled, and showed signs of displeasure.
“No,” he said. “My neighbours are all honest people. D’ye think I’d live amongst people that wasn’t honest—me?”
“Oh, well, £11 ain’t nothing to you, Uncle Solly,” said Issy as soothingly as his enforced loud tones would permit. “You ain’t going to be broke for eleven quid, are you? Why you could throw eleven quid into the street.”
Uncle Solly looked sideways at his nephew with unutterable disgust, and Issy saw that he had made a mistake. He hastened to repair it.
“What I mean is, you could throw eleven quids away without feeling it,” he bawled. “Aman what’s got as many quids as you have——”
“You’re a fool,” snapped Uncle Solly rudely. “You ain’t no wisdom. I couldn’t throw eleven pennies away without feeling it. That wicked person what robbed me last night, has done me harm. I was going to invest a certain sum to-day; now I’m £12 short of it: I don’t know where to get no £12. I shall lose my good investment, and it was such good interest, too. I’m a poor man; I don’t go picking up no £12 in the street. I had to work hard before I buy my property.”
Issy was suddenly struck by a brilliant idea. It was so brilliant, indeed, that it almost took his breath away. But he recovered his breath, and he smote Uncle Solly on the shoulder.
“Uncle Solly,” he shouted. “Do you know what. I’ll lend you £12 to take up your investment. I’ll lend it to you till next quarter-day, and—and you don’t have to pay me no interest, neither. What do you say, Uncle Solly?”
Uncle Solly gazed doubtingly at his nephew. But Issy nodded with eagerness, and Uncle Solly stretched out a dirty claw-like hand.
“You don’t have it about you?” he asked in an avaricious whisper.
“This minute,” responded Issy with alacrity. He drew out his pocket-book and carefully selected a ten-pound note, then he plunged his hand into the secret receptacle within his horsey waistcoat, wherein he had deposited the five sovereigns which Melky had withdrawn from their hiding-place inside the doll. He pulled two of the sovereigns out, laid them on the £10 note, and handed the lot over. “There you are, Uncle Solly,” he said magnanimously. “Twelve quid till next quarter-day. And I don’t take no interest from you.”
Uncle Solly took the note and the sovereigns in dead silence. He held the note up to the light, he fingered it, he smelt it, he did everything but eat it. Then he examined the sovereigns, first with his fingers, then with his eyes. And then he got up out of his chair, and laid aside his ear-trumpet.
“I stand you a nice drink, Issy,” he said. “What you like to drink, eh? Port wine, eh? I stand you a nice drink of port wine. You sit quiet a minute while I send for it. Very good port wine at the corner. I send for a nice bottle.”
Uncle Solly shuffled out of the room and away down the stairs, and Issy sat back in his chair and laughed. Oh, what a clever fellow he was! What a stroke of good business! He had lifted himself miles high in Uncle Solly’s estimation and good graces, and all by that little stroke of genius. What was twelve quid in comparison to all that property which Uncle Solly would be certain to leave him! He rubbed his hands and chuckled for sheer delight. And being alone, he fell into a day-dream as to what he would do when the property was indeed his.
Uncle Solly was away quite ten minutes. When his shuffling steps sounded at last on the stairs, they were accompanied by other steps. The sound of those steps made Issy jump; he knew that those steps belonged to policemen.
The door was pushed open, Uncle Solly appeared, the banknote and the two sovereigns still in his hands. And close upon his old heels came two very big policemen. Before those enquiring eyes, Isidore felt himself turning white and green, like Gorgonzola cheese. He rose from his chair, and his jaw began to drop.
“That’s him!” screamed Uncle Solly, pointing a quivering and vindictive finger at Issy. “Take him! Handcuff him! Lock him up till the judge puts him away! Take him at once, hold him fast. Mind he doesn’t jump through the window! Ah, the dirty sneak thief! Do you know what?” he went on, as the policemen lined up about Issy. “He come in here and offer to lend me £2—two of the very quids he pinched from me last night! These quids—look at them! Marked, I tell you, them quids are marked! Mr. Waters, one of my tenants, him what keeps the greengrocery store round the corner, he pay me them quids in his quarter’s rent. They’ve marks on ’em both. I pointed ’em out to Mr. Waters. Mr. Waters, he laugh about ’em. ‘You’ll know ’em all the better, Mr. Rosenbaum,’ he says—just so. Don’t I know ’em— don’t I know my own moneys? And he pulled one out of his pocket, the young thief, just now. Oh, shameless one! But you shall go before the judge. Take him away, misters; put the irons on him.”
Issy backed away as one of the policemen beckoned him. But already he saw himself on the brink of the abyss into which the arm of the law was going to push him headlong. It was all up. Melky would naturally deny everything, and Issy knew that he couldn’t prove anything against Melky. And he couldn’t prove an alibi, either, for, as cruel luck would have it, he himself had been in Uncle Solly’s neighbourhood the night before, ere proceeding to the restaurant. No, his luck was down and out.
“It’s—it’s a dreadful mistake!” he panted. “Them two quids——”
“Come on now,” said one of the constables. He laid a hand on Issy, and turned him to his uncle. “You’ll have to come and charge him, Mr. Rosenbaum,” he said.
And at that, Uncle Solly picked up his hat, with alacrity, and, with Issy in its centre, the tragic procession set forth.