Alfred Penny, second-hand bookseller, was one of those people who somehow or other drift into the occupations for which they are naturally fitted. He had begun life as a grocer’s apprentice, simply because his father and mother considered that to be a highly respectable trade. He had continued it as a grocer’s assistant because that seemed the inevitable result. But during his apprenticeship and his assistantship, he had spent all his spare time in hanging round and about the old bookshops, of which there were many in Wolborough, and before he was twenty-five, he knew more of the book trade—in its second-hand branches—than he did of his own. Grimes, proprietor of the shop which Penny most affected, said as much to him, and hinted that he would be much better and more fittingly employed in buying and selling books than in wrapping up packets of cheap tea. Penny thought as much himself, but he had been securely planted in his particular hole, and he saw no way of getting out of it. Old Grimes made a way for him—by departing this life. Grimes’ one daughter had no mind to carry on her father’s business; she had other views, which included leaving Wolborough altogether. So she offered Alfred Penny the entire business, stock, goodwill, on the easiest terms. Alfred had managed to save a certain amount of money; he borrowed more from a sympathetic and believing friend; the combined results went into Miss Grimes’ pocket, and Penny had a new sign painted to go over the shop front and the twopenny boxes. “Penny, late Grimes,” became a new feature of Turnstile Passage, Wolborough.
Alfred Penny revelled in his new business. All his thoughts were devoted to it. The better sort of book-buyers in the town soon recognised him as a man who really had an interest in the books which he bought and sold. He became an expert on rare editions, scarce pamphlets, odds and ends of antiquarian literature; at the close of the first year of business he had completely forgotten all about the various sorts of rice and the difference between tea from China and tea from Ceylon. No adventurer sailing into unknown seas, or plunging into hitherto unexplored forests, ever set out with more zest for his enterprises than Alfred Penny felt when he attended the sale of some ancient country house library or opened a parcel of books offered him in his shop. There was always the chance, even in a parcel of what looked like rubbish, of finding a first edition or a scarce tract. Consequently, Penny lived in an atmosphere of discovery, and—when his time permitted it, which was seldom—he wondered how he had lived through the ten years during which he wore a grocer’s apron.
One winter morning, as Penny sat in his shop, busily engaged in turning over a number of catalogues just received from brother booksellers of distant towns, a soft and somewhat timid voice sounded close behind him.
“If you please, do you buy books?” This seemed a superfluous question, for there was a sign outside the shop door which informed passers-by that books were bought within. But Penny was used to such inquiries, and he turned with alacrity—to find himself confronting a young, pretty, and shy girl, who he saw at once was dressed in mourning garments. He jumped to his feet.
“Yes, Miss!” he answered promptly. “In any quantity—from entire libraries to the smallest parcels. You have some books to sell?”
“My mother wants to sell some books that my father left,” replied the girl. “Perhaps you would come and look at them?”
“With pleasure, Miss,” answered Penny. “What sort of books might they be, now? And how many of them? Anything local?”
“I think they’re chiefly technical books—engineering and mechanics,” said the girl. “But there are some others—a good many. Two hundred, perhaps, altogether. If you could come to No. 12, Mayfield Terrace? Would it be to-day? We should be glad if you would, because we’re going to remove the day after to-morrow.”
“Three o’clock this afternoon, miss,” responded Penny, jotting down the address. “What name, please?”
“Mrs. Burland,” replied the girl.
“Be there at three sharp,” said Penny.
The girl went away quickly, and Penny, watching her slim figure as she passed through the door, was suddenly conscious of having seen her before. Of course—he remembered her now—she had been a customer at the grocer’s shop; he had often seen her there with her mother—a comfortable, well-to-do woman of the superior artisan class, who always had plenty of money to spend. And just as suddenly he remembered something else.
“Burland—Burland!” he repeated. “Ah, of course, that’ll be the daughter of that John Burland who was killed last year in the explosion at Ramsdale’s. Of course, he was an engineer—that’s why they’ll be mostly technical books. Not much in my line —but there’s always a chance of a find anywhere.”
The house at which Penny presented himself that afternoon at three o’clock was one of a row of cottage-like dwellings which stood under the shadow of Ramsdale’s Machine Works—one of the biggest of the many big industrial concerns of Wolborough. It was the sort of house in which the better-class workmen lived, with a living-room and a parlour on the ground floor, but in this case the parlour, instead of being devoted to genteel uses, had obviously been used as a workroom by John Burland. There was a bench and a lathe on one side of it, a table with instruments and tools, all neatly laid out in the centre, a home-made bookcase in a recess. The widow, who obviously remembered Penny in his grocer days, waved her hand round the room as she led him in.
“Just as my husband left it,” she said. “We’ve never touched a thing—except to put ’em straight. And shouldn’t ha’ touched ’em, very like, for it gives one a thought of him to come in here and see his things. But, you see, I can’t afford to keep up this house any longer—we must go into a smaller one, me and my daughter—so I shall have to part with all that’s in it here. There’s a man coming to buy these tools and things to-night. And how much do you think you can afford me for the books now, mister?”
Penny was used to these appeals. Since he had succeeded old Grimes he had often been fetched to small houses to buy books which he knew at first glance to have no other proper designation than that of his twopenny-box placard. It was always distasteful to him, a soft-hearted young man, to have to explain to the sellers that their goods were of no great value. He knew by experience that his protestations were invariably taken as business, and that the people from whom he bought believed that he would presently get five shillings for what he had laid out fivepence upon. And he turned to Burland’s collection hoping that he would find something commercially valuable in it, for he already had an idea that the widow and daughter wanted money.
“He spent a deal of good brass on them books, did my husband, one time or another,” observed the mother as she and her daughter watched Penny go through shelf after shelf with practiced eye and hand. “He’d give as much as ten shillings for some of ’em. Said he couldn’t do without ’em for the things he made. He was always inventing something or other in the way of machinery. Mr. Ramsdale, of course, he made most of the things my husband invented. He’d been inventing for more years nor I can remember, had Burland, when that explosion killed him.”
“I hope you’ve profited by it,” said Penny. “Inventions bring in a lot of money, don’t they?”
“They haven’t brought so much here, anyway,” replied the widow, a little bitterly. “Taken more out o’ this house than ever they brought in, I should say. Now and then there’d be an extra ten-pound note, or happen a bit more, from one or other thing; but naught bigger nor better. Of course, my husband always did talk of some grand machine that he was working his brains at—something that was going to make all our fortunes—but naught had come of it when he was taken. I’m afraid they’re all alike, is these inventors—always living on hope.”
“But you know, mother, that father told us his big work was just about finished only the week before his death,” said the girl. “If he’d only lived——”
Penny, who thought he saw something like tears in the girl’s eyes, hastened to plunge into the matter-of-fact realms of business.
“Well, I’ll tell you what,” he said, “I’ll make you a lump offer for the lot, and I couldn’t offer it if this wasn’t a town where such books as these are likely to be bought. A lot of ’em are out of date, some of ’em aren’t worth anything to me. Twenty pounds for the lot, ma’am, and that’s a good offer.”
He saw that the girl was agreeably surprised; she evidently had some idea of the value of the goods, sold at second-hand. But the mother hesitated.
“Eh! Why, as I say, he’d give as much as half a sovereign for one book, sometimes,” she said. “Of course, I’m sure you’d do right by us, young man. I used to see you when you were in the grocery line. You couldn’t say more now?”
“It’ll be a long time before I get my money back at that figure,” replied Penny. “Folks don’t buy these technical books every day, you know. Shall I give you the money in notes, ma’am? I have them here.”
“Well, twenty pounds is twenty pounds,” said Mrs. Burland. “And I’m sure me and my daughter can do with it, for Burland he hadn’t saved a deal, and though he’d worked at Ramsdale’s all them years, Mr. Ramsdale he only allows us a pound a week, for a pension—like. And, of course, a pound a week and the bit o’ money we have, it isn’t enough to keep a house this size, so we’re going to a smaller. Very well, then mister, twenty pounds.”
Penny counted out four five-pound notes and went to charter a handcart. He had a little conversation with the girl as he packed the books, and he thought of her a good deal as he walked back to his shop later on. A very nice young lady, decided Penny in his simplicity, and he felt very sorry for her. For it was evident to him that the father must have been a highly skilled workman, and perhaps if he had lived that big idea of his might have come off, and then—who knows? Like all men who have lived in the big industrial towns, Penny had been bred up on the stories and legends of what great good fortune may come to lucky inventors; and there were half a dozen instances of it in Wolborough itself. Why, at that very moment, wasn’t half England—the manufacturing England, at any rate—talking about Ramsdale’s Multiplex? A most wonderful machine which Ramsdale himself had lately invented, patented, and could not manufacture in sufficient quantity to supply the world demand for it. Oh, of course, a lucky inventor was a millionaire in embryo, no doubt of that. And if Burland hadn’t been killed by that explosion——
But Burland had been killed, and his widow and daughter were obliged to sell his small belongings. And that evening, Penny, after his custom, spread the books out on the big table in the shop, and began to sort them, separating the better sort from the inferior sort. A few of these books were really expensive books on machinery. These Penny carefully selected and set aside, hoping that he might find a speedy customer for them.
He opened one or two of the larger volumes, to look at the diagrams and folding plates, and suddenly, from one of them dropped a paper, on the back of which was an endorsement, in a stiff, rather laboured handwriting, the writing of a man who was obviously not greatly used to holding a pen. Penny glanced at that endorsement, and he started at what he read, for his thoughts of the afternoon, about the possible profits of inventors, were still with him. For there, on the back of the folded paper, were three lines, plainly written: “Memorandum about the invention of my machine, to be known as Burland’s Multiplex, October 6th, 1901. John Burland.”
Penny stared at this endorsement during the whole of a moment’s wondering silence. Then, glancing at the clock, he shut and fastened his shop door, turned down the lights, and, carrying the paper and book from which he had taken it with him, he went upstairs to the rooms in which he lived all by himself.
Penny, creeping up his dark stairs to his little sitting-room, felt like a conspirator who has unexpectedly come into possession of a weighty secret. He was sure there was a secret, a mystery, in that paper which he so carefully grasped—there must be. Burland’s Multiplex?—was it likely there could be two multiplex machines? Could it be that——But the mere notion of a possibility which came into his mind filled him with a queer sort of moral sickness, and he made haste to light up his lamp.
It was very still in that little room; the silence seemed to Penny the fitting environment for what he was about to do—which was to read a message from a dead man, a message which, as fortune would have it, had come to none but him. He saw how things were—John Burland had written this paper and put it away in one of the folding plates of a book which he doubtless used constantly. And before he could take it out again his own death had come, by accident. And no one had ever seen that paper until he, Alfred Penny, had chanced upon it.
He sat down at his table and opened the paper—a half-sheet of foolscap— before him. This is what he read, with wondering eyes and speculative brain:
“Mem. abt. my machine, to be called ‘Burland Multiplex.’ First notion of this machine about seven years ago—probably in winter of 1894.
Worked at idea more or less regularly ever since.
Never mentioned it to a soul—not even to Mr. Ramsdale.
Began drawings in ’98.
Finished drawings in 1900.
Made first model in 1900.
Broke it up 1900.
Began second model same year.
Broke that up as soon as finished.
Began third and final model, April, 1901.
Finished it September 29th, 1901.
Perfect. One of the most wonderful machines ever invented.
Lodged drawings and model with Mr. Ramsdale for his inspection and advice as to getting patents and putting machine on market this day, October 6th, 1901.
This will be my thirty-third patent. It will produce a fortune such as I scarce dare dream of.
JOHNBURLAND.” The discoverer of this document let it fall from his hands upon the table and gasped. He was a simple, honest soul, Penny, but he had imagination and penetration amongst his mental equipment, and it seemed to him that he was gazing into a vista, however. Surely, the whole affair was plain. Burland had given his drawings and his model to Ramsdale, his employer. Then Burland had been killed. Then Ramsdale, who probably knew that no one, not even Burland’s wife and daughter, were aware of the existence of model and plans, had taken out this patent in his own name, had begun manufacturing the machine, had put it on the market; and was now reaping a colossal fortune out of it. Everybody in Wolborough knew of the success of Ramsdale’s Multiplex. It could not be turned out fast enough. It had completely revolutionised the spinning industry. The wildest rumours were afloat concerning the enormous sums which Ramsdale had received from foreign manufacturers for the right to make it. It was said that Ramsdale, always a rich man, was now a multimillionaire. Only recently, Penny, walking near Ramsdale’s house one Sunday with a friend, had been told by that friend that it was said that Ramsdale was making thousands a week out of the multiplex.
“And he allows the real inventor’s wife and daughter a miserable pound a week!” soliloquised Penny. “What a mean scoundrel! But——”
But what was to be done? Penny had seen enough of the dead man’s widow to recognise that she was no more than a plain, womanly, working-class woman, who would certainly not know how to stand up for her just rights, and if she made any claim against Ramsdale, would probably take some trifling amount in satisfaction of it. The daughter, however, was of a superior sort; Penny, in that brief conversation with her, had found out that she was a school teacher and educated and of some ambition. She was a pretty girl, and a nice girl, and Penny had been rather more than a little struck with her. He had chivalric feelings, this little second-hand bookseller, and now he felt like a knight of old, and he smote his table with a big bang and swore that Burland’s daughter should be righted. But—how? Who was he, poor Alfred Penny, to stand up and fight the great Ramsdale?
Imagination usually comes to people who urgently desire it, and it came to Penny. It came in the shape of a name—Mr. Wilmington. Mr. Wilmington was one of Penny’s best customers. He was one of the few merchant princes of Wolborough who thought about things outside money and business. He bought books; he had a good trade in pictures. He was a very rich man, a powerful man, a magistrate, an alderman who had in his time been Mayor of Wolborough—and he was, withal, a very kindly-natured and easily approached man. Certainly Mr. Wilmington was the very man of whom to seek advice. And thereupon Penny cased himself in his overcoat, put the important document in his pocket, turned out his lamp, and set forth to get a tramcar to the residential quarter in which Mr. Wilmington lived.
Mr. Wilmington, a pleasant-faced, elderly gentleman, was alone in his comfortable library when Penny was shown in to him. He smiled at the little bookseller as he motioned him to come to the fire.
“Hello, Penny!” he exclaimed. “What brings you here in such a hurry? Found something rare, eh? What is it—a Caxton?”
Penny sat down, got his breath, and stared fixedly at his host.
“I’ve found something stranger than any Caxton sir,” he answered. “Something that seems—well, terrible to me, Mr. Wilmington. You know—you know Ramsdale’s Multiplex?”
Mr. Wilmington stared. There was no one in that neighbourhood who did not know Ramsdale’s Multiplex. But—what did Penny know?
“Well,” he asked. “What of it?”
Penny bent forward and sank his voice to a whisper.
“He didn’t invent it!” he murmured. “It isn’t his, Mr. Wilmington—there’s wrong being done!”
Mr. Wilmington stared harder than ever at his visitor. And Penny sat and nodded —the nod of complete assurance.
“You’ve got something to tell,” said the elder man at last. “Begin at the beginning, my lad! And—be precise.”
Penny drew a long breath and began his story—from the moment that the dead man’s daughter entered the shop that afternoon. And his hearer heard—and his face grew graver and graver, and was very dark indeed when Penny, to conclude matters, placed the memorandum in his hands.
“Heaven bless my soul!” he exclaimed. “That’s a strange story, Penny! And I’m afraid it’s quite possible that your theory’s a right one.”
“Mr. Wilmington,” said Penny solemnly, “it can’t be anything else, sir. Look at the facts!”
“I’m going to look at several facts, my lad,” said the old gentleman, who was carefully reading and re-reading the memorandum. “And we’ll begin with one very pertinent one,” he continued, as he rose from his chair and went over to a bookcase in which numerous large volumes were set. “It runs in my mind that this poor chap was killed just about the time that he wrote this paper. We’ll turn up the account of that explosion in this file of the Wolborough Observer. Ay,” he said presently, as he turned over the bound volume and put his finger on a certain column, headed by big black capitals, “here we are, that accident in which Burland lost his life was October 7th. The very day after he wrote this memorandum!”
“And the very day after he put his model in Ramsdale’s hands!” muttered Penny.
Mr. Wilmington made no answer to that remark. He restored the newspaper file to its place, went to another part of his bookcase, and returned with a bundle of official-looking journals.
“We’ll soon see when the patent office people advertised this machine,” he said, as he sat down at his desk. “This is their official journal, Penny. You aren’t conversant with the procedure in this sort of thing, eh? I am, having had to do with a good many in my time. What’s done is this. The inventor must first of all file a provisional or a complete specification of his invention at the patent office. The examiner of the patent office then investigates it—to see if specification and drawings properly describe the invention. If he’s satisfied, he advertises the specification in this official journal. Then two months elapse—for anybody interested to have a chance of opposing the grant of a patent. If no opposition comes forward within that two months, then the patent is sealed. Understand? Well, now let’s see when Ramsdale’s Multiplex was advertised—1901, eh? Here you are—there it is—December, 1901. So the patent would be sealed February this year. Since when, my lad, Ramsdale and the various folks to whom he sold licences and concessions have been turning out that machine as fast as ever they could make it! Penny, if Burland’s memorandum is true, it’s a bad, bad case!”
Alfred Penny sighed deeply. He could find no words—all he could do was to shake his head and reflect on the ease with which defenceless poor people can be robbed.
Mr. Wilmington shook his head, too.
“Ramsdale,” he observed, “is not what I should ever call a scrupulous man. I’ve heard of other tricks that he’s done. Taking unfair advantage of people, and so on. Some people call that sort of thing clever. I call it bad. In this case his procedure seems to have been pretty clear. Burland probably told Ramsdale that not a soul knew of this wonderful machine. When Burland was killed in that explosion, Ramsdale knew that he was in possession—sole possession—of the whole thing. He took immediate steps to patent the machine in his own name. And he satisfies his conscience—such as it is—by giving the widow and daughter a pound a week for life! Bad, Penny; very bad!”
“What’s to be done, sir?” asked Penny.
Mr. Wilmington looked at his watch.
“Half-past eight,” he said meditatively. “Plenty of time to do something to-night. Naught like taking a man unawares in a thing of this sort. But we’ll have a bit more advice. Come on with me—we’ll step around to Mr. Chelwick’s and tell him all about it. He’s a man of more influence than I am, and if he talks straight to Ramsdale, Ramsdale’ll listen. And now’s the time to make Ramsdale listen. Why? Because it’s rumoured that Ramsdale’s put in for a title—knighthood or baronetage, or some handle of that sort—and if this got out, Penny, my lad, good-bye to all his hopes of it!”
During the next hour, Penny, listening to a conversation carried on with great earnestness between Mr. Wilmington and his neighbour, Mr. Chelwick, at the lastnamed gentleman’s house, was not quite sure whether books were really as interesting as men. He already knew Mr. Wilmington pretty well; he had long known Mr. Chelwick by reputation as about the smartest lawyer in all Wolborough. And he sat in silent enjoyment as these two laid their heads together before him. For Chelwick, when he had heard everything and had read the memorandum, remarked that Martin Ramsdale was a cute and clever man and had probably evolved some deep means of protecting his own interest in this shabby matter. He might assert, protest, even swear in a Court of Justice that Burland had given him the invention. He might similarly protest that the invention was partly his own.
“The memorandum gives the lie to that,” remarked Wilmington. “Burland distinctly says that he never mentioned it to a soul, not even to Mr. Ramsdale.”
“Good; but Ramsdale may say that it wasn’t perfected and that he himself perfected it,” pointed out the lawyer. “If we only had the original drawings, the specification, the model.”
“Ramsdale could be made to produce all,” said Wilmington.
“Ramsdale is clever and ingenious enough to have had the drawings copied— probably to have copied them himself, being, as he is, a trained mechanical draughtsman,” said Chelwick. “And so for the model, the difficulty would be to prove that it was made by Burland. This paper, undoubtedly in Burland’s handwriting, speaks of a machine called the ‘Multiplex,’ which he says here he delivered a model of to Mr. Ramsdale, together with the drawings. What we have got to prove is that that is the identical machine in every respect which is now known as ‘Ramsdale’s Multiplex.’ Personally, I haven’t the least doubt that it is and that Martin Ramsdale is an unscrupulous thief! But how to prove it?”
Alfred Penny felt his sentimental heart swelling with so much indignation that it was like to burst his bosom. He thought of the defrauded mother and daughter; and, small person as he felt himself to be in the presence of these two great men, he ventured on a remark which sprang from his hatred of wrong and oppression.
“Wouldn’t public opinion be on your side, sir?” he said, glancing at the lawyer. “I should say it would, sir; I should, indeed!”
Chelwick laughed good-humouredly and glanced at Wilmington.
“Ay, Mr. Penny,” he answered. “I dare say it would; in fact, I’ve no doubt about it. But men like Martin Ramsdale don’t care for public opinion—that sort of public opinion, anyhow. No, we’ve got to take a strong and bold line with Ramsdale. Wilmington, there’s only one way. We must bluff him!”
“How, precisely?” asked Wilmington.
“Make him think that we’re in possession of—well, of a much stronger case than we are in possession of,” answered Chelwick. “Now listen. Mr. Penny, write down the address of Mrs. Burland. Thank you. I shall call on her first thing to-morrow morning. Now, I want you to call at my office at three o’clock sharp in the afternoon. Ramsdale will be there, or I’m no prophet. Then you’ll take your cue from me. You’ll neither of you say a word unless I call on you to speak. You’re the two who know—well, more than you’ll ever tell Ramsdale, eh? That’s the only way —bluff—sheer bluff!”
“You think something’ll come of it, sir?” asked Penny a few minutes later, as Chelwick conducted his visitors to the door. “You think these two ladies will benefit?”
Chelwick winked over the little bookseller’s shoulder at Wilmington. Then he clapped Penny on the back.
“You shall have the pleasure of carrying ’em whatever good news there is!” he said.
Then he shut his visitors out and went back to his study, and safely locked up John Burland’s memorandum in a fireproof safe.
Ramsdale, the proprietor of the world-famous engineering and machinery works which bore his name, was feeling more than pleased with himself next morning. The invention to which he had put his name was turning out a literal gold mine. He had been obliged to build new sheds and lay down new plant in order to make the machines; even then his workmen could not turn them out fast enough. He had issued licences and given concessions to other machine-makers in two continents; every machine made by these people brought into Ramsdale’s coffers a handsome royalty. Ramsdale, in fact, was growing rich in such a speedy fashion that he sometimes dreamt that he was swimming in a sea of gold—a sea whose limits were beyond all sight. For the wonderful machine had revolutionised a staple trade, and manufacturers all over the world were clearing out their floor-space to make room for it. And Ramsdale knew that this sort of thing would go on for at least three years. By the end of that time he would be worth—he scarce knew what.
He had no compunction, no qualm of conscience—money, and what money would bring him, was the only god Ramsdale had ever thought it worth while to worship. All this affair was business—sharp business, if you like, but still nothing more, nothing less, than business. If John Burland had lived, Ramsdale would have bought that invention from him. He would have offered him a lump sum and Burland would have been satisfied. But Burland had been—providentially for Ramsdale— removed by that sudden explosion; therefore, Burland could not profit any more by any earthly thing. That was no reason why Ramsdale should not profit. But he was cute and careful in his doings. A few guarded inquiries convinced him that nobody knew anything about Burland’s invention, not even the widow and daughter. Ramsdale was not the man to stick at points of honour; he would have been a fool in his own opinion if he had not taken this chance fortune offered. As for Burland’s folks—why, who and what were they to command riches? A working woman and a girl who taught in a school! They wouldn’t know what to do with money if they had it. A pound a week for life for ’em—ample and handsome. The girl was now twenty —suppose she lived to be seventy, she’d receive £2,600. Handsome, repeated Ramsdale—and quite sufficient.
On the morning after Alfred Penny’s discovery, Ramsdale walked about his works glowing with satisfaction. He had good reason to feel set up. On his desk that morning he had found two letters which particularly pleased him. One was from a world-famous firm of machine-makers, which wrote to say that it wanted to make 10,000 machines, and offered £10 royalty on each machine—cash down on acceptance of the offer.
Ramsdale liked letters of that sort, there was £100,000 for no more trouble than signing a document and enclosing a letter with it. That was bit of good news number one. Number two was a private letter from the local Member of Parliament; it had nothing to do with machines. It was merely to tell Ramsdale privately that his name was safely down for a baronetcy in the forthcoming New Year’s Honour List. Ramsdale scarcely knew which letter pleased him most. But he was not above a little day-dreaming, and he was scrawling Sir Martin Ramsdale, Bart., over and over again on a scrap of paper when one of his clerks entered the private office and handed him a letter.
“From Messrs. Chelwick & Radbourne, sir,” said the clerk. “By hand. No answer, sir.”
Ramsdale put the letter down and did not open it for a moment. He scrawled his name again in the same fashion, and, as an afterthought, added M.P. to it. But, upon reflection, he was not quite sure that he cared about Parliament—at least, about the House of Commons, for any Dick, Tom or Harry could get there nowadays. No, he would have a peerage. So he amused himself by scrawling Baron Ramsdale of Wolborough on the paper—after which, with a sly laugh at his own childishness, he tore it up, and cut the flap of Chelwick & Radbourne’s letter.
Ramsdale rose from his desk a minute later, shaking like a man who has suddenly been smitten by palsy. His invariably cool and keen brain felt as if somebody had dealt it a crushing blow. Just as quickly as he had risen he dropped back into his chair—to stare again and again at the short, sharply-worded letter. And by degrees his brain began to clear and to recover from the mere physical shock. And, being a man who called a spade a spade, and who never lied to himself, whatever he did to other people, Ramsdale faced the truth. He was found out!
He sat there for a long time wondering. Found out! Yes, there was no doubt of it. He knew Chelwick, of Chelwick & Radbourne. Chelwick would never write a letter like that unless he knew. But—how had things been found out? By whom? When? Under what circumstances? So far as his busy mind could think, there was literally no living person who could have betrayed him. But Chelwick’s letter showed that there was no surmise, no conjecture, no hitting out on the chance, in Chelwick’s mind. There it was—Chelwick knew. And Chelwick summoned him—peremptorily —for three o’clock.
It was Ramsdale’s daily custom to lunch at the Wolborough Club, a select institution where, at between one and three o’clock every day, most of the leading men of the town foregathered. Chelwick and Wilmington were there that day as usual, but Ramsdale was not. And the solicitor and ex-Mayor commented on this fact as they left the Club together at twenty minutes to three and walked to Chelwick & Radbourne’s office, to find Penny meekly hanging about in the hall.
Chelwick, Wilmington and Penny sat in silent—and stern—conclave when Ramsdale was shown in just as the clock struck three. Ramsdale looked loweringly at all three. Knowing how things stood, he was prepared for Chelwick’s sharp tone, for Wilmington’s frigid and almost contemptuous nod. But who was the little man who sat in the background, staring at him in that queer fashion which somehow suggested something worse than contempt? He had an idea that he had seen that little man somewhere, some time, in the town, but he could not place him. Was it he who knew, or had discovered, the secret? Anyway, Ramsdale immediately became more afraid of Alfred Penny than of the other two; his very presence, inconspicuous as it was, was alarming. For Ramsdale knew something of unknown forces, and here was one. He did not know what that quiet-looking little chap might know and be able to tell, and so he feared him.
But Ramsdale meant to bluster, and he began to bluster. He began by throwing Chelwick’s letter on Chelwick’s desk, and demanding to know what it meant. And Chelwick picked up the letter and calmly threw it back, and he pointed Ramsdale to a chair with a look which made him take it.
“Now, Mr. Ramsdale,” said Chelwick, “none of that in my office! The sooner you understand that you’re at our mercy the better for you. You haven’t come here to bluster, but to make amends. And if you don’t make amends, then you’ll see what happens. Do you hear that?”
“I hear you,” growled Ramsdale sullenly.
“Then you shall hear more,” continued Chelwick. “You shall hear what we know —know, mind!—and that all the world shall know unless you come to your senses —as I fancy you will. The machine which you patented as your own invention is not your own invention at all. It never was, you never so much as invented a single spring in it! You never heard of it, never had an idea of it, until John Burland brought drawings and model to you the day before he was killed at your works. Then— when you thought you were safe—you stole it for your own benefit. Mr. Ramsdale, you’ll never get that title you’re fishing for, for we shall brand you and advertise you as a mean thief! Do you hear that?”
Ramsdale’s eyes glittered and the veins on his forehead swelled. But—he knew Chelwick. And all that he managed to get out in answer to the lawyer’s plain language was three words, hoarsely uttered:
“Where’s your proof?”
The lawyer brought his hand down smartly on a folded document which lay before him, then he lifted it and pointed to Wilmington and Penny.
“The proof’s here,” he exclaimed, “and there, and there! Don’t you make any mistake, Mr. Ramsdale. You know me. I know what I’m talking about if you don’t. Now then, what is it going to be? Amends or absolute and complete exposure? Which? No trifling, sir! You’ll answer that question here and now.”
Ramsdale made a last effort to show some spirit.
“D’ye mean to tell me that you expect a man to answer a question like that offhand?” he exclaimed, with an affectation of inquiry. “It takes some thinking, thinking about, and——”
“You’ve had a whole year to think about it,” said Chelwick. “I said—here and now. Understand! I’m fully empowered by the widow and daughter to act on their behalf—you’ll either make reparation on terms agreeable to me and Mr. Wilmington just now—or you’ll take the consequences. I’ve a very accurate idea of the profits you’ve made and expect to make. I’m open to accept—for cash—a lump sum on behalf of the widow and daughter of the late John Burland in satisfaction of— everything. But I refuse to give you even ten minutes to think of anything. You’ll decide now!”
Ramsdale looked from Chelwick to Wilmington, from Wilmington to Penny. And suddenly he lifted his finger and pointed at the bookseller.
“Who’s that man?” he demanded. “What’s he got to do with this?”
“Never mind who he is,” retorted Chelwick. “You’ll know quick enough if this gets into the law courts. Now, then—your answer!”
Ramsdale got up and looked significantly at the inner door.
“Aword with you and Wilmington then, in private,” he said.
Alfred Penny sat in a tremor of expectation while the three men stayed in that inner office. If this had been his own affair he could not have been more anxious. It seemed ages before the door opened and they came back, and he glanced inquiringly at all three. He fancied he saw satisfaction in Wilmington’s face; he noticed that Chelwick held a folded slip of paper; he saw that Ramsdale’s eyes had something closely resembling relief in them. And once more Ramsdale looked sharply and inquisitively at him—then he strode across the room and went away without a word.
Wilmington clapped Chelwick on the back.
“Well done!” he said. “Well done. And yet—he’ll make an enormous fortune as it is!”
“Never mind,” said Chelwick. He sat down, put a slip of paper in an envelope, wrote a name outside, and turned to Penny. “Now, Mr. Penny,” he said briskly, “I promised you that you should carry whatever good news there was. So take that to Mrs. Burland. I had some talk with her and her daughter this morning, so she’ll know what the bit of paper in the envelope means. Tell her to lock it up safely for tonight, and to come down with it to me to-morrow morning. Run! That’s it, take a cab!”
Penny shot out of Chelwick & Radbourne’s office and fell into the first cab he encountered. It was some distance, and uphill, to Mayfield Terrace, and it seemed to him as if the cab would never get there. But at last it pulled up, and Penny, waving his envelope, darted into the little house. And although he had ridden, he was almost breathless.
“Here—here!” he exclaimed, thrusting the envelope into Mrs. Burland’s hands. “From Mr. Chelwick! He says you’ll know what it is. I—open it, ma’am!”
He and the pretty daughter pressed closely against Mrs. Burland’s shoulder as she tore open the envelope, and drew out a cheque. She gave one look at it, screamed, and dropped it on the table. And Penny and the girl bent closer—and read:
“Pay Mrs. Sarah Burland on order two hundred and fifty thousand pounds.
MARTINRAMSDALE.” Then Alfred Penny did an extraordinary thing. By all rights he ought to have hugged the mother and kissed the pretty daughter. Instead, he let out a deep and terrible groan—and rushed headlong from the house. Nor did he cease his hurried flight until he had reached his shop, where he frightened his shop-boy by feverishly getting together all the books which Mrs. Burland had sold him the day before, and carefully packing them in neat parcels. For Penny was very sure that Mrs. and Miss Burland would now want to buy those books back again.
When Penny went to his parlour that night, he looked round its solitude, smote his forehead, and groaned.
“Separated!” he muttered. “Separated—on the very threshold of love’s blissful dream. Separated by a—a sum of sovereigns. What young woman who is heiress to a quarter of a million would ever look at poor Alfred Penny?”
But in that Alfred Penny was wrong. He had made up his mind that he would never go near Miss Burland again when, one morning, he met Miss Burland in the open street. Mr. Penny bowed and blushed, and would have passed miserably on; but Miss Burland—who also blushed—had other views.
“Mr. Penny,” she said, with ingenuous directness, “why have you never been to see us since you brought the good news? Come, now—is it because of the money, Mr. Penny?”
Penny’s cheeks grew redder and redder, and he wished the earth would swallow him. And he could not think of a single conventional excuse.
“Mr. Penny,” said Miss Burland seriously, using her full battery of charms, “if you don’t come and have tea with us on Sunday, I shall never——”
She paused, and Penny found strength to get out two words.
“Never—what!” he whispered.
But Miss Burland shook her head.
“No,” she responded, “I won’t say it—because you will come, won’t you?”
So Penny became allied to vast wealth and a pretty wife. He sometimes passes Ramsdale in the streets of Wolborough, and they look at each other. And Ramsdale, on these occasions, always looks as if he badly wanted to ask Penny a question. But at sight of Ramsdale, Penny—who is now a collector of rare editions, instead of a seller of second-hand volumes—invariably assumes an expression which might have been copied from a statue of Virtuous Reproof.