The London express, stopping for a bare minute in the little station of Lyncaster, set down a single passenger, a quietly-dressed, middle-aged, spectacled man, whom casual observers, had they looked at him at all, would have taken for a member of the professional classes, a doctor, a solicitor, a chartered accountant. The few people on the platform paid no attention to him; within a moment of his arrival he had given up his ticket, passed through the booking-office, and was rapidly walking up the road to the town,—a collection of ancient houses set on the ridge of a low hill, from the crown of which two objects—the high roof of the old Moot Hall and the square tower of the parish church—stood out prominently against the glow of the December sunset. Within five minutes he was in the heart of the town—a marketplace which looked, at first glance and in that uncertain light, as if nothing had altered in it since the Middle Ages. Gabled and timbered houses, diamond-paned windows, queer chimney-stacks, a pavement of cobble-stones, a pillared and canopied market cross, the old church at one end, the Moot Hall at the other—these things seemed to make up the whole of Lyncaster, save for a few narrow and equally ancient streets which opened out of the square at various unexpected angles. It needed but one sharp, shrewd glance on the part of the stranger to see that he was now in the midst of one of those antique English boroughs which are becoming rarer with every generation, and wherein life apparently still takes its tone and colour from the past.
But the man from London wasted no time in looking round. His quick eyes had at once fallen on two words painted on a projecting lamp, and thrown into prominence by the flare of a gas-jet. Those two words were Police Station—he made for the door beneath them, as a business-like man makes for the object which demands his immediate attention. The door was half open; within, in a barely furnished office, hung about with official-looking papers and bills, a sleepy-looking young constable was writing at a stand-up desk. He lifted his face—the face of a rustic promoted from the plough—and opened his mouth as if to signify that his ears were also open.
“Superintendent Sutton in?” asked the stranger. “Then tell him, if you please, that Detective-Sergeant Milgrave, from New Scotland Yard, is here.”
The constable, awed to silence by this announcement, took one hasty glance at the London detective, and lumbered into an inner room. He muttered his news to some person who sat within, then turned and beckoned. Milgrave walked sharply forward, to be met by a big, burly man, who held out a stout fist, and showed unmistakable pleasure and relief at his visitor’s coming.
“I’m right glad to see you, sir,” he said, pulling forward an elbow-chair to the edge of a blazing fire. “We’re not much used to this sort of thing in these parts, you know, and we want a Londoner to take a look in at this affair. I suppose,” he went on, motioning Milgrave to seat himself—“I suppose you’ll have heard the facts of the case—read ’em in the newspapers, of course?”
“No!” answered Milgrave. He set down his suit-case, unbuttoned his overcoat, and took a seat. “No! I know nothing, except that there’s been a murder here, and that I’m sent down, at your request, to help to investigate it. I saw headlines in the papers, certainly, but I didn’t read what was underneath them. I don’t know anything. That’s my way, superintendent—I like my facts at first hand. And so you’ll perhaps tell me all about it, at once.”
“You wouldn’t like to take something, first?” asked the superintendent, with rural solicitude. “It’s a long journey, and——”
“No, thank you—business first,” responded Milgrave. “Let me know what’s been done, and what’s to be done, first of all. I’ll see to myself when I’m posted up. Tell me all you can.”
The superintendent, a bluff, hearty-looking individual, who obviously felt great interest in the personality of this man from the Criminal Investigation Department, drew his own chair to the fire, and shook his head as he dropped into it.
“It’s a queer do—as we say in these parts,” he remarked. “I never heard of a queerer, and I’ve been thirty and odd years in the force, Mr. Milgrave. Well, I’m a poor hand at telling a tale, but I’ll put it to you in as good order as I can. Now, then, to be what we may term systematic about it, this is Thursday, December 10, 1914, isn’t it? Very well, on the night of day before yesterday—Tuesday, December 8— our young mayor, Mr. Guy Hannington, came into the Moot Hall by the front entrance, out of the market-place, and went up to the mayor’s parlour. That was at half-past eight o’clock. The person—the only person—who saw him come in was the caretaker, Learoyd, a pensioned policeman. Learoyd and his wife live in the ground floor rooms of the Moot Hall—you can’t enter at all from the front without passing their door and window, as I shall show you presently. Learoyd was standing at his door when his worship came in at the entry, and he asked him if there was aught he could do. His worship said no; he was only going up to the mayor’s parlour to look at some papers. He went up, and Learoyd and his wife sat down to their supper.
“A good hour passed; Learoyd remarked to his missis that his worship was stopping upstairs a longish time. Then he went out into the entry and smoked his pipe a bit, expecting the mayor to come down. But he didn’t come, and didn’t come, and it got to ten o’clock, which is Learoyd’s time for locking all up. So, after a while, Learoyd got uneasy, and he went upstairs and listened at the door. He heard naught —no moving about, nothing. So at last he knocked—and got no answer. Then he opened the door. And he saw at once that something was wrong, for there was the poor young gentleman lying across the hearthrug, between his desk and the fireplace, arms stretched out, and as still as could be!”
“Dead?” asked Milgrave.
“Dead as a door-nail, sir!” replied the superintendent. “There was no doubt of that. Learoyd just took one look at him—he was lying on his back, and the light was full on—and then he hurried down for his wife, and sent her for Dr. Winford, who lives in the market-place, and for me—I live just round the corner. Dr. Winford and me got there together. The doctor just looked him over and said he’d been dead quite an hour. And as to how he’d come by his death, he’d been stabbed!”
“Stabbed, eh?” remarked Milgrave. “Stabbed!”
“Stabbed through the heart,” said the superintendent. “And,” he continued, with a significant shake of the head, “from the back. Dr. Winford, he says that the mayor had been writing, or was writing, at his desk when the murderer drove a knife, or something of that sort, clean through his heart from behind. He says—the doctor— that he’d leap up, throw out his arms, twist round, and fall where he was found, on his back. He says, too, that death would be practically instantaneous.”
“Learoyd never heard anything—no sound of a fall, or a cry?” asked Milgrave.
“Nothing! But you’ve got to remember that our Moot Hall is one of the very oldest buildings in England,” answered the superintendent. “You’ll see for yourself that the walls and floors are of a tremendous thickness—eight to twelve feet thick in places. No, Learoyd had heard nothing. And there were no signs of any struggle. Everything was in its place. His worship had begun a letter—written the date, and ‘My dear sir.’ That and an agenda-paper for the next council meeting were on his blotting-paper; his pen was on the floor. There wasn’t a sign that anybody but himself had been in the room. And Learoyd had never seen or heard anybody go up there after the Mayor.”
“Still, somebody could have gone up?” suggested Milgrave.
“Might have gone up while Learoyd and his wife were at their supper,” assented the superintendent. “But it’s unlikely—at least, at first sight—for, as you’ll see, there’s a big glass panel in their door, through which you can see the staircase, and Learoyd sat facing it while he was at table. We can’t hear of anybody who saw a soul enter or leave between half-past eight and ten o’clock. Still, there must have been somebody—the murderer—because there’s no other entrance.”
“No back entrance?” observed Milgrave.
“Not at that hour. The back entrance is closed at six, when the clerks go away,” replied the superintendent. “No; whoever did it must have slipped in very quietly, just when Learoyd happened to have his back turned, and have got out again in the same fashion.”
“Suspect anyone?” asked Milgrave.
“Why,” answered the superintendent, with a deprecating laugh, as if the suggestion was not worthy of mention, “there is some talk in the town about an Italian chap, a sort of showman, who got into trouble here some few months since. Mr. Hannington was the magistrate who sent him to prison, and the fellow was understood to make a threat against him. Of course, we’re trying to trace the man, but——”
“Just tell me about the mayor,” interrupted Milgrave. “We’ll leave the Italian. Who was the mayor? How long had he been mayor? Was he popular, or disliked? Had he any enemies in the town, or elsewhere? Give me any details of that sort.”
“I should say a more popular young fellow never stepped,” answered the superintendent, heartily. “Most popular, sir. Everybody liked him. Never heard a word against him from any quarter. His family’s the principal family in the town; they’ve lived at the Manor Court since old Henry the Eighth’s days. They’re bankers —the principal bank belongs to them. This young Mr. Guy—his father died just as he was leaving Cambridge, so he became head of the family and chief proprietor of the bank at a very early age, only a couple of years ago. He soon showed that he was a very keen business man, and he began to take a strong interest in the borough affairs as soon as he settled down here. And this year he was elected mayor—been mayor just a month when he was murdered.”
“Just a month!” soliloquised Milgrave. “Um—a keen business man—took a strong interest in municipal matters, eh? Was anybody against his election as mayor?”
“Not a soul, sir—unanimously elected,” replied the superintendent. “Of course, both his father and his grandfather had been Mayors of Lyncaster in their time—ay, and their grandfathers before them. Our charter’s a very old one, Mr. Milgrave— time of Edward the Third. We’re an old community.”
“So I observed from a mere glance round,” said Milgrave. “Well, this is a queer business, superintendent. You haven’t a clue of any sort?”
“Not the ghost of one,” replied the superintendent. “I don’t believe in that Italian notion myself. This is a very small town. It’s almost impossible that a foreigner could come in, or go out, without being observed. Besides, supposing this Italian did come back, how could he know that the mayor was to be found in his parlour at that particular hour? No, sir. And yet I can’t think who—who could want to kill this poor young gentleman.”
“Was Mr. Hannington married?” asked Milgrave.
“No; single—lived with his mother and two sisters,” answered the superintendent. “Afine way they’re in about him, too, poor things!”
“Do they know whether he had any enemies—anybody who had any reason for wanting to get rid of him?” suggested the detective. “On the very face of it, you know, there must have been some motive for the murder. I conclude, of course, that it wasn’t robbery. Well, it may have been revenge. It may have been jealousy. Had Mr. Hannington any love affair?”
“Now, that’s been speculated on,” answered the superintendent; “but, according to his mother, he hadn’t, and what’s more, never had had.”
“So far as she’s aware, that is,” observed Milgrave. He rose from his chair and buttoned his overcoat.
“Well,” he went on, “let’s have a look round your Moot Hall, particularly the mayor’s parlour.”
The superintendent took his visitor out into the market-place, and across to the ancient building in which the affairs of the town had been conducted for so many centuries. Darkness had now fallen over Lyncaster, but Milgrave could make out the lines and general appearance of the Moot Hall by the light of the gas-lamps which flared from various stalls set up on the cobble stones. That it was a place of great antiquity he saw at once. Without making any pretence to any deep knowledge of architecture, he knew that this old building had probably been looking down on Lyncaster market-place in, at any rate, the later Tudor days. But he was not just then so much interested in its antiquity as in its relation to the crime which he was charged to investigate, and he proceeded to look over the place in systematic and businesslike fashion.
The Moot Hall formed the centre of a group of ancient buildings which almost completely enclosed one side of the market-place. It was entered by an archway which led into a vaulted hall. On one side of this hall lay the rooms in which the caretaker and his wife lived. A glass-panelled door and a small window looked out of the living-room into the hall, and commanded a clear view of the wide stone staircase by which access was gained to the upper apartments. These apartments were few in numbers. On the first floor was the council-chamber, a committee-room, the town clerk’s private office, and the mayor’s parlour; on the second some smaller rooms, used chiefly as storehouses for the municipal archives. Above that was a vast attic, or lumber-room, in the high roof. All these various apartments and places were contained in the front of the building; through a door in the lobby of the first floor, entrance was obtained to a newer wing, in which the corporation offices were located. And, according to fixed rule, that door was locked and bolted by Learoyd at six o’clock every evening. It was, therefore, impossible for any person to enter the old, the front, part of the Moot Hall from the back after that hour.
“And Learoyd’s positive,” said the superintendent, “dead positive, that on that night he locked up just as usual, and hung the key in his parlour. So nobody could have got to the mayor in that way.”
“There’s the possibility that the murderer had hid himself somewhere in these old rooms before the mayor came,” remarked Milgrave. “That’s how it strikes me, anyhow. Hid himself, did his work, and sneaked out while Learoyd was busy with his supper. It wouldn’t take him a second, you know, to slip out into the marketplace.”
They were standing on the threshold of the mayor’s parlour just then, and Milgrave turned back into it and took another look round. The room had been left exactly as it was found when Learoyd made his terrifying discovery: the desk, the chair were precisely as the ill-fated young mayor had left them. There on the carpet and hearthrug was the terrible stain which signified so much. But Milgrave, who had already seen all this, did not look at it again. This time he was noting the antique beauty of the room—its groined roof, its vast fireplace, the mullioned windows, the fine oak panelling, black with age, the dusky oil-paintings of dead mayors and local celebrities, the fine old Queen Anne furnishings, the big oak chest. It was a fit scene for many things—for the deliberations of the town grey-beards, for the dispensing of that hospitality for which mayors are so famous—but not for a foul murder. He suddenly turned away, and, tapping his companion on the arm, went silently out of the room.
“Do you know what I’m wondering, superintendent?” he asked abruptly, when the elder man had locked the door, and they were going side by side down the wide stone stairs. “Can you guess?”
“Not at all, sir,” replied the superintendent. “Something deep, eh?” Milgrave laughed—a grim, slightly cynical laugh.
“Not so deep, perhaps,” he answered. “No; I’m just wondering, not who it was
that killed Mr. Hannington, but why he killed him—why? Motive, you know, superintendent, motive! If I could lay my mind on a motive—ah, I think I should soon lay my hands on a man. However, at present I’ll get my bag, put myself up at the Lyncaster Arms yonder, eat my supper, and reflect.”
Milgrave began to reflect as soon as he had quitted Superintendent Sutton’s company, and he continued to reflect, and to surmise, and to speculate, and to invent theories, and to devise all manner of suggestions and possibilities during the next twenty-four hours—all without result. That evening, having installed himself at the old-fashioned hotel in the market-place and refreshed his inner man, he interviewed several people in Sutton’s company. He interviewed more people next morning and at various intervals during the day. He got no light from anybody—no one had a single suggestion to make. The dead man’s relatives could tell nothing beyond what Milgrave already knew; the great men of the town, aldermen, councillors, magistrates, were frankly puzzled. The corporation officials were utterly bewildered.
The inquest, held at noon on that second day, revealed nothing; the only fact that was beyond dispute was that someone evilly disposed had obtained access to the mayor’s parlour, while the mayor was in it on that evening of December 8, and had stabbed him to death. How the person had obtained access did not seem a very important point. The hall of the Moot Hall was not over well lighted at night. Learoyd and his wife were at supper for some time; anyone having this murderous intention in his heart could easily have slipped up the stairs unobserved.
The only point raised at the inquest which interested Milgrave was the opinion of the doctor as to the nature of the weapon used by the murderer. The doctor said that that weapon must have been a stiletto or finely-pointed dagger; the rapier of other days would have caused such a wound. The mention of stilettos made those present think of the vindictive Italian who had muttered what had appeared to be threats against Hannington when sent to prison. But during that day a telegram informed Sutton that the Italian was pursuing his career as showman in a far-off part of the country, and had certainly not been within a hundred miles of Lyncaster on the night of the murder. And at nightfall, on the second day of his arrival in the town, Milgrave was as wise as ever. There was no clue; nobody had come under suspicion. The Lyncaster murder promised, in good sooth, to be one of those mysteries which are never solved.
Milgrave was sitting over a late supper that second night, wondering if the reason of the murder might not be found in some by-gone passage of young Hannington’s life—some episode, say, of his college days—when Sutton came to the hotel, evidently primed with news. The superintendent closed the door of Milgrave’s private sitting-room with great caution, and, in spite of their privacy, he dropped his voice to a whisper as he advanced to the detective’s chair.
“Now then,” he said, “I’ve heard something.”
“Much?” asked Milgrave.
“Can’t say whether it’ll turn out to be much, little, or nothing; but it’s something,”
answered the superintendent. “Did you notice, when you were at the inquest this morning, a queer-looking old chap that sat in a corner of the court—strange character in appearance?”
“No,” replied Milgrave. “I never looked round the court at all. This old man, then——”
“Old chap of the name of Antony Mallalieu, but commonly called Snuffy Mallalieu, from a habit of his,” answered Sutton. “He’s one of the oldest men in Lyncaster, a regular patriarch, and one of the characters of the town. Keeps a queer odds-and-ends shop where he sells all sorts of old things. He’s a bit of an antiquary and so on. I saw him in court to-day, and just now I got this from him.”
He handed the detective a scrap of the whitey-brown paper which is used in small shops for wrapping up odds-and-ends. On it Milgrave saw a few words traced with what had evidently been the sediment of a very muddy bottle of cheap ink.
“Mr. Sutton.—If you like to come and see me to-night, and bring that London gentleman with you, it may be to your advantage.—Yours truly, AMallalieu.” Milgrave smiled at the crabbed handwriting as he handed the scrap of paper back to his visitor.
“You think—what?” he asked.
“He’s a deep ’un, is Snuffy Mallalieu,” said Sutton. “He knows something. I noticed this morning how he was taking everything in at that inquest. We’d best go round and see him.”
Milgrave had seen some strange places in his long experience, but never anything quite so extraordinary as the house and shop to which Sutton presently led him. The shop, which opened on a quiet alley behind the Moot Hall, was crammed from floor to ceiling with what most people would have called rubbish—old furniture, old glass, old brass, old pictures—odds-and-ends of every description without order, arrangement, or sequence, thick and black with the accumulated dust of ages.
There was scarcely room to turn in it; there seemed to be less room in the gloomy house behind, where passages, stairs, every nook and corner was piled high with similar goods.
A shadowy figure piloted them from the half-lighted shop through a narrow passage to a parlour beyond, filled with strange things and permeated with an atmosphere of gin, onions, and strong tobacco. Then the shadowy figure turned up the wick of a lamp, and Milgrave found himself staring at the queerest old man he had ever seen in his life, the sort of man who might have been imagined by Dickens or drawn by Doré.
He was very old and very dirty; his garments, of the style of the Regency, would have disgraced any scarecrow; there was a strong probability that he never took them off, and only put on a clean shirt once a year. Altogether, he was anything but nice to look at or be near, and Milgrave was thankful that he and Sutton were smoking strong cigars. But out of the old fellow’s face, so wrinkled and scarred that it looked as if its skin—properly stretched—would have covered half-a-dozen human countenances, gleamed a pair of unusually bright, knowing eyes, and one of them favoured the two men with a decided wink as a hand, that was suggestively like a bird’s claw, pointed them to a dilapidated sofa—the only thing in the room on which a seat was available.
“All safe here,” said the old man, in a much stronger and firmer voice than Milgrave expected to hear from such an ancient atomy. “I slipped the bolt in the shop door when you came in, Sutton, so we shan’t be interrupted. Your servant, Mr. Man-from-London—you look a sharp ’un! Quiet and close and sharp—them’s the sort—eh, Sutton? Well, well! but you must have a drop to drink. I drink gin myself, but I’ll give you some whiskey that’s been in bottle—ay, five-and-twenty years. I’ll lay aught neither of you ever put lips to its like!”
Milgrave would have refused this offer of hospitality, but Sutton gave him a nudge and a look; he therefore remained quiescent while the queer old figure, bustling about in its strange surroundings, produced a sealed bottle and dexterously drew the cork.
“I bought two dozen of that whiskey at Lord Felbrough’s sale twenty-five years ago,” he said. “I had it all specially corked and sealed and I’ve seen to the renewing of the corks at proper times. Now, then, here’s what you might be surprised to see in this den, Mr. Man-from-London—clean glasses and pure water. Best crystal in two respects, eh, Sutton? Now, I’ll help you, and then I’ll help myself to a drop of my liquor—never touch aught but gin—and then we’ll talk. Abit of talk—illuminative talk—is what you both want, eh?”
“Light—certainly,” answered Milgrave.
“Ay, light!” exclaimed the old man, seating himself on a pile of leather-bound folios. “Light on darkness—what? You want to know who killed young Hannington, my lads, don’t you?”
“Do you know?” asked Milgrave.
Snuffy Mallalieu’s sharp eyes fastened themselves on the detective’s with a shrewd twinkle. He suddenly bent forward and slapped Milgrave’s knee with the claw-like hand.
“How old do you think I am, young man?” he asked.
“Eighty,” replied Milgrave, promptly.
“You’re wrong. I was an old fellow when Sutton there was a young man,” retorted Snuffy Mallalieu. “I’m ninety-seven years old. If you doubt it, you can go and search the parish register. Ninety-seven! And sound in mind, body, and estate. Never wore glasses in my life, and still got the necessary teeth, and still as good of hearing as ever. I shall live to be well over a hundred.”
“You’re a marvel!” said Milgrave. He was wondering what all this was going to lead to, but he knew it was best to let the old fellow take things in his own way and at his own pace. “Amarvel! Ninety-seven! Agreat age.”
“Naturally, a man that’s lived ninety-seven years in a place knows something about it,” remarked the old man. “Sutton there can tell you that there’s not much that I don’t know about Lyncaster.”
“Nobody knows more, I’ll be bound!” assented Sutton heartily. “That’s a certainty.”
“Happen I know a bit more than I’m known to know,” said Snuffy Mallalieu, with another glance at Milgrave. “Well, now, there’s been a bit of doubt as to whether whoever it was that killed the young mayor went into the Moot Hall by the front—eh?”
The two listeners pricked their ears, this was something like coming to a point. But neither spoke, and the old man laughed with the slightly teasing glee of conscious knowledge. Then his face changed and became serious.
“Until this affair happened,” he said, bending towards his visitor, “I believed that there wasn’t a soul but me who knew a secret about our Moot Hall. I thought I was the last to know it. Now I think—nay, I’m sure—somebody else knows it. It’s this —there’s a secret way into the old place!”
“What!” exclaimed Sutton.
“That’s so,” said the old man. “My father, and his father, and his grandfather, lived in our Moot Hall, where Learoyd lives now. They all knew of this secret way, and they passed the knowledge down. It’s a way that cuts through the walls, goes down below the market-place, and ends—where do you think?”
Milgrave made no answer. His sharp wits told him that the usually stolid man at his side was waking up under the influence of that crafty, wrinkled old face; there was a new atmosphere in those strange surroundings—he himself was falling under its spell. He kept silent. But Sutton’s big form stirred uneasily.
“Well—where?” he asked, almost with a growl. “Where, then?”
Snuffy Mallalieu thrust his face still nearer to the two so intently bent on his own. He sank his voice to the ghost of a whisper.
“In a secret staircase in the Bank House!” he answered.
Milgrave felt the superintendent jump in his seat. Then he turned on his companion with a strange look, his back to the old man.
“What!” he exclaimed. “Mr. Leggett’s! You don’t say!”
“Sure,” answered Snuffy Mallalieu.
He, too, relapsed into the same silence as the other when he had spoken that one word. Milgrave wondered what the silence meant—to the others, at any rate; to him it merely signified waiting. It seemed quite a long time before Sutton relieved his feelings with a big letting loose of his held-in breath, and a fervent exclamation.
“By Jove!” he said, in a tense whisper. “Who’d ha’ thought it?”
“Just so,” assented the old man. He pulled out an ancient snuff-box, took a hearty pinch, and looked at the superintendent. “You see what that means, Sutton?” he continued. “It’s struck you! Mr. Man-from-London here doesn’t see.”
“Frankly, I don’t,” said Milgrave.
“Simple,” remarked Snuffy Mallalieu. “Mr. Leggett, who lives at the Bank House, is a gentleman with a taste for antiquities and archæology. Also, he’s for a good many years been manager of Hannington’s Bank—trusted and responsible manager. Further, for ten years he’s been borough treasurer. Eh?”
Sutton, who had been sitting open-mouthed, holding his glass in his hand, suddenly drank off his whiskey and rose. He rapped the old man’s shoulder.
“You can show us where this secret way is?” he said.
“Ay, for sure!” answered Snuffy Mallalieu. “And whenever ye like.”
“Now, then,” said Sutton. “Sooner the better. Come across with us.” The old man shook his head.
“Not till you’re certain that we shall be by ourselves,” he said. “You’d better go and arrange matters with Learoyd. Let him send his missis to bed at their usual time, and then let us in. I’ll meet you outside there at just after ten. Mind you, Sutton, I don’t want all the town to know that I’ve told you. It’s been a family secret up to now, but—now——”
“What?” asked Sutton.
Snuffy Mallalieu laughed mirthlessly.
“Now I think Leggett’s found it out,” he replied. “Well, till ten, then.”
Sutton took Milgrave out of the odds-and-ends shop and drew him into a quiet corner.
“Do you know what that means—may mean, mister?” he whispered. “You heard Leggett’s name mentioned? Manager of the bank—borough treasurer—ay, but he’s more than that—he’s trustee for I don’t know how many families in town! There’s been a pile of brass entrusted to Leggett in this place of late years. A quiet, very respectable, smooth-tongued gentleman—universally respected, as the term is. Leggett! But by the living jingo—suppose—suppose——”
“I want to hear more before I suppose anything,” said Milgrave. “You know more than I do. Suppose—what?”
“Young Hannington was a keen ’un about business matters,” replied Sutton. “I know he was beginning to go into things. Supposing he’d found something out— wrong, eh, with money matters? Bank funds, borough funds—what? Now, do you see? And what’s to be done?”
Milgrave’s mind was already made up on that point. “Have you two or three men that you can thoroughly depend upon?” he asked. “Men to whom you can tell a little and rely on fully?”
“Half-a-dozen,” answered the Superintendent, promptly. “Good ’uns!”
“Two will do,” said Milgrave. “Let those two keep a quiet eye on that Bank House, back and front, while you and I find out what this old man’s got to show us. If it’s as he says, and if it’s as you think it might be, why then——”
He ended with an expressive shake of his head, and hurried the superintendent away in the direction of the police-station.
Milgrave, naturally quick to observe things, had noticed on the first night of his arrival in Lyncaster that the townsfolk were evidently in the habit of keeping early hours. By half-past nine the lights began to be transferred from the lower to the upper windows, by ten the little town was wrapped in silence and in darkness, save for the two or three lamps left burning in the market-place. It was in this silence and semi-gloom that he and Sutton presently met Snuff Mallalieu, who, buttoned to the chin in an old horseman’s cloak, so ancient that it might have served some eighteenth century highwayman, awaited them in a corner of the Moot House entrance. Silently the three were admitted by Learoyd; in silence they went up the stone stairs. At its head Sutton produced a couple of bull’s-eye lanterns.
“There are three windows in the mayor’s parlour that look out on the marketplace,” he said. “I don’t want anybody to see any big light on in here, so we’ll use these things. They’ll be useful, too, if we’re going to explore this passage that we’ve heard of.”
He unlocked the door of the mayor’s parlour as he spoke, and when they had entered he relocked it. Then he set the two lanterns on a centre table and turned to the old man.
“Now, then, Mr. Mallalieu,” he said. “It’s your turn. What’s this that you’ve got to show us?”
Snuffy Mallalieu had moved over to the further end of the room, near the big fireplace, and was looking down at the stain on the carpet and hearthrug, which Milgrave had viewed, and made no comment on, at his first inspection. He looked up from it at the desk and the chair, and slowly nodded his head.
“Ay!” he said, reflectively. “Ay! Just as I expected it would be from what was said at the crowner’s ’quest this morning—just! I see how it was done, my lads.”
“How what was done?” asked Sutton.
“The murder, of course,” answered the old man. “An easy job, though a clever one. Now, attend to me, both of you. As I told you, my father and grandfather were keepers—caretaker you call it now—of this Moot Hall, and their grandfather before them—ay, for two hundred years, as the town books’ll show, Sutton. Consequently, there’s not much about the old place that I don’t know of. Now, then, you see this mayor’s parlour? There’s the front, looking on to the market-place, with three windows. Here’s the side, overlooking Finkle Gate—it’s two windows. By this last window, on this Finkle Gate side, young Hannington had his private desk placed. There it is—there’s the chair he sat in when he was stabbed. What’s behind that chair? You see—a fine old tapestry curtain, divided in the middle. What’s behind that? Come and look.”
The old man picked up one of the lanterns, and led his companions to the corner of the room to which he was pointing. Milgrave, who was following him with intense attention, at once perceived what he meant. In the middle of that side of the room a big, canopied fireplace projected well into the apartment; on either side of it there were, consequently, deep recesses. The recess behind the mayor’s desk and chair was draped with an antique tapestry curtain. Old Snuffy tapped this with his finger as they advanced to it.
“Now take notice,” he said. “When that chair is in its proper place, in front of the desk, its back is separated from this curtain by a space of about eighteen inches. Consequently, a man standing behind that curtain, where it divides—here—could easily reach a man sitting in that chair. And what happened, my lads, when the young mayor was killed, was this—the murderer stood, unknown, behind the curtain, waiting. When the mayor sat down in his chair at the desk and bent forward to do his bit of writing, the murderer put hand and arm through the divide in the curtain and drove his weapon straight into his back. The mayor, as the doctor said, would jump up, twist round, and fall across there, where Learoyd found him. Now, then, where did the murderer go? Why, he went where he came from! Look here!”
Milgrave, closely following these details and suggestions, was impressed by the almost feverish interest, the intense delight with which the old man was making them. It was plain that Snuffy Mallalieu’s passion for antiquities was aroused, and that what appealed to him more than anything was his pleasure in explaining to his companions how the secret architecture of that ancient building had furthered the murderer’s nefarious designs. The claw-like hand trembled with eagerness as it drew aside the curtain; the crafty eyes glittered as they roved over the dark time-stained panelling of the recess.
“Bring that other lantern, Sutton,” commanded the old man, as he swept aside the tapestry. “Shine it on here—here. Mr. Man-from-London, you hold this; I want both hands. Now, then, look—both of you. You see that this recess is panelled, just like all the rest of the room. Queen Anne stuff this, gentlemen, every inch of it! Good, solid oak that came out of Lyncaster Forest, sound as a bell yet. Now, you can look all this panelling over as closely as you like, and it’ll take you a long time to find where the door is that I’ve told you of. But it’s here! And I’ll lay you all I’ve got in my shop to a cracked tea-pot that the man who’s discovered the secret of this door and the passage beyond has taken good care to grease the hinges! Now look. You put a finger on that bit of carving there, you press this other bit of carving here —and there you are!”
Under the old man’s trembling hands a narrow strip of panelling, five feet by two, slid away in the angle of the recess, and revealed a deep cavity in the solid masonry of the thick wall. And Snuffy Mallalieu, stepping into this, and beckoning the others to follow, took a lantern from one of them, and held it down to the dust of the floor on which they stood.
“What did I tell you?” he said, with a grim chuckle. “There you are—oil! You see, he’s oiled the machinery, so that it ’ud open easy. Now do you see the trick of it?”
“What I want to know,” said Milgrave, “is—first, does that panel open from this side?”
For answer the old man drew the panel into place, shut it tight, and demonstrated its opening. He looked at the detective with a grin of triumph.
“And, second,” continued Milgrave, “where does this passage lead to?”
“Ah!” answered Snuffy Mallalieu. “Now you’re talking! That’s the really important thing. Come on!”
The passage of which Milgrave had spoken, and into which Sutton was casting dubious and half-frightened glances, went off in the thickness of the masonry behind the built-out fireplace. It was about six feet in height, about two and a half in width. Cobweb hung from its roof, strange growths showed on its walls. But the dust that lay thick on its floor was dry enough, and the old man chuckled again as he held a lantern down to it.
“Look there!” he said. “Footprints—plenty of ’em. Recent, all of ’em. Now, if you can pick out a nice, separate, distinct one, Mr. Man-from-London, and compare it with somebody’s boot, eh?”
“I hope this is safe,” remarked Sutton, looking uneasily about him. “No fear of it falling in, is there?”
“It’s been safe for three hundred years and more,” retorted Snuffy Mallalieu. He marched confidently forward, lantern in hand, until Milgrave had counted some fifteen paces. There a blank wall confronted them; at right angles to it appeared a narrow stairway, evidently cut through another wall. “Now, then,” continued the old man, “do you know where we are, Sutton? That’s the wall that runs down the side of the big staircase in the hall below. This stair’s cut clean through it, right through the foundation, and into a passage, like this, that runs under the market-place. It goes right under Belford the butcher’s cellars, and under the cellars of the next two shops, and then into another stair that cuts in the wall of the Bank House, which, I may tell you,” he added, turning to Milgrave, “is an older building—the house part of it, anyway—than this Moot Hall. And in that house it comes out in another panel doorway that opens in Leggett’s parlour, close by the fireside. There!”
The two men looked over the old fellow’s shoulder into the black chasm of the stair. Sutton sniffed doubtfully at the cold, damp air which hung about them.
“Come back to the mayor’s parlour,” he said. “We’d best decide what’s to be done.”
It was at this stage that Milgrave took command. He had been thinking deeply while the old man made his revelations, and he had now decided on the course which he wished to pursue. Once out of the nearest door, and standing near the spot still stained by the dead man’s blood, he spoke with decision.
“There’s only one thing to do, superintendent,” he said. “You and I must call on this Mr. Leggett at once. You must make the excuse that we want to ask him a few questions about Mr. Hannington. Don’t frighten him at first, nor later, for that matter.”
Sutton looked at Snuffy Mallalieu, and laughed cynically.
“It ’ud take a good deal to frighten Leggett,” he observed. “He’s as hard and cool a customer as ever I had to deal with.”
“All the better,” said Milgrave. “Now, then, this is my plan: You and I go straight there; we engage Leggett in what we’ll call casual conversation—speculative talk about the murder. It’s now twenty minutes to eleven o’clock. You, Mr. Mallalieu, go through this passage and make your way to the secret door in Leggett’s house. You’ve a watch on you! Set it by mine. Good! Now, then, at precisely eleven o’clock you knock on that secret door. Knock loudly—once, twice, thrice—a second or so between each knock. See?”
Sutton looked as if he did not quite see, but the old man nodded and chuckled gleefully.
“Good notion, my lad!” he answered. “I’ll do my part; off you go. He’s about certain to take you into that parlour; it’s his sitting-room. But I’ll knock in such a fashion that it’ll be heard anywhere in the house. But keep your eyes open; he’s one of those quiet chaps that might turn uncommon ugly, is Leggett.”
“All right,” said Milgrave. “Now, remember, eleven sharp!” He beckoned the superintendent to follow him out of the room, pausing on the stair outside to say a warning word or two to Learoyd. “Now, superintendent,” he went on, as he and Sutton crossed the silent market-place, “is this Leggett a married man?”
“No; bachelor,” answered Sutton.
“What household does he keep?” asked Milgrave.
“Couple of servants, middle-aged women. We’ve got to bear this in mind,” continued Sutton abruptly “If he’s—what there seems to be a probability that he is, he’ll be a dangerous man to tackle. There’s two of my men there in that entry opposite the Bank House; hadn’t I better tell ’em to keep handy?”
“No—wait,” answered Milgrave. “I think you and I can tackle one man, at a pinch. We can watch him without seeming to do so, the thing is to be alert at eleven o’clock. Now, then, you ring, and do the first talking.”
The bank manager himself opened the door of the house, a quaint old building at one side of which stood the modern bank premises. He remained for a moment framed in the doorway, a lamp in his hand, silently regarding his visitors. Milgrave, watching him closely, saw no sign of fear on his face, nor any surprise; all that he showed was a cold disapproval.
“Well,” he said, acidly, “what is it, Sutton?”
“Sorry to disturb you, Mr. Leggett,” answered the superintendent, apologetically; “but can you give me and Mr. Milgrave here a minute or two? There’s one or two little matters that you might be able to help us in, sir; just a small detail or two, you know.”
Leggett stood back, motioning them to enter.
“You come at a strange time,” he observed coldly. “Was this the only time you could hit on? However, come this way.”
He closed the street-door behind them, then turned and preceded them down the hall to a room which Milgrave at once took to be the parlour of which Snuffy Mallalieu had spoken. One glance at it, when Leggett had turned up the light, showed its great age. The floor concealed beneath the thick modern carpet was uneven; the big oak rafters which spanned the low ceiling were bent and twisted. It needed little knowledge to know that behind the panelling of the walls lay ancient stone walls raised by some mason-hand of many a century ago. Instinctively, Milgrave looked towards the fireplace and its surroundings, wondering whereabouts in the highly-polished oak the secret door was. There were evidences of the owner’s antiquarian tastes on every hand—in the beautiful old furniture, the cabinets of china and glass, the rare objects displayed on the walls, the old prints and books. But the owner himself was of more interest—a thin, sparely built man, with a cold eye and unsympathetic lips, keen, self-controlled—the sort of man who might not call forth affection, but would doubtless create trust and confidence.
“Sit down,” said Leggett, still disapproving and acid. “What is it you want to know? It seems strange to me that you should expect me to be able to tell you anything. I should think everything that can be told was told at the inquest this morning.”
He was looking at Milgrave as he spoke, and the detective was quick to take up the challenge.
“Just so,” he answered. “But only on the surface. This affair, of course, is something that depends on more than mere surface information. My duty is to go down as deeply as I can. You haven’t any theory of your own, I suppose?”
The bank manager had listened to this with a supercilious smile. It was evident that he had no great idea of detective intelligence.
“If I have, I don’t know that I’m bound to communicate it to the police,” he said half-musingly. “But, since you ask the question, I don’t mind saying that, in my opinion, if you want to get at the secret of Hannington’s murder, you’ll have to go far back—as far back as you can in such a young man’s life. I’m not going to suggest anything, but you must remember that our late mayor spent three years at Cambridge and two in London before he came down here to take up his father’s place as head of this bank, and—he may have made enemies. Eh?”
“Quite so,” replied Milgrave. “And you think that some enemy contrived a clever entrance to the Moot Hall at a particular moment—the particular moment?”
He was watching Leggett closely now, and he was not slow to see that Leggett was watching him. A subtle gleam of something—was it suspicion, doubt, fear?— stole into the cold, blue eyes, and, instead of an answer coming, a curious silence fell over the three. Milgrave waited a while, and broke it himself.
“Whoever made his way into the mayor’s parlour,” he said, in a quiet, even voice, “must surely have been remarkably well-acquainted with Lyncaster Moot Hall. No stranger, for instance, would know how to time his entrance so well. The mayor did not usually go to his parlour at that hour every evening.”
The thin lips smiled disagreeably.
“How do you know that Hannington hadn’t made an appointment with his murderer?” they asked. “It’s all nonsense, of course, about Learoyd not seeing anyone enter or leave. Learoyd was too busy with his supper to attend to things of that sort. A man could easily have slipped in and out; and as to getting away, why, it’s not two minutes’ walk to the outskirts and the open country from any point of this town, and——”
Milgrave, as if in a fit of absent-mindedness, drew out his watch. It was already but a minute to eleven. He interrupted Leggett as if a chance idea had struck him.
“Of course,” he said, indifferently—“of course, there may be means of obtaining entrance to your Moot Hall that I know nothing about. In these old places there are often such entrances—secret passages and such-like. And——”
He paused, looking at the bank manager as if for information. But even as he paused he saw that the shaft had gone home. A sudden twitch of the man’s lips, a new light in his eye; but he laughed cynically, throwing up his head as if in contempt.
“Pshaw!” he said scornfully. “We don’t live in the days of walled-up skeletons, and——”
With the first silvery chime of a clock that stood on the mantelpiece the first heavy knock sounded without the panelled oak by which the cynical voice was speaking; and, in spite of long years of training, Leggett sprang to his feet with a sharp cry, twisting round as he rose to stare at the wall whence came this strange summons. It came again, and the two watchers, who had also risen and were quietly moving nearer to him, saw great beads of sweat break out on his forehead. He reeled slightly, stretching out a hand, and as the third and more peremptory knock sounded he uttered a queer, choking cry and dropped forward into Sutton’s arms.
“Fainted!” muttered Milgrave. “Set him down there while I tell one of your men to call the doctor.” He went out to the front door, and, returning a moment later, looked meaningly at the unconscious man. “That was a capital idea, superintendent,” he said. “His nerve wasn’t up to that. I shouldn’t wonder if he fancied that was Hannington’s ghost. Well, the next thing’ll be to get at his motive. Financial, of course.”
Milgrave stayed in Lyncaster long enough to have it proved to him, fully and abundantly, why Leggett killed the mayor. The borough accounts were all wrong— had been cooked and manipulated for many a year. The bank had been robbed, cleverly and systematically; numerous families had been defrauded. And the only thing that he ever wondered about, after Leggett had been safely hanged, was whether the murder would ever have been detected if Snuffy Mallalieu had not lived to his remarkable age in full possession of his remarkable faculties.
THE END


