Some years ago I enjoyed the unique experience of pursuing a man for
one crime, and getting evidence against him of another. He was
innocent of the misdemeanour, the proof of which I sought, but was
guilty of another most serious offence, yet he and his confederates
escaped scot-free in circumstances which I now purpose to relate.
You may remember that in Rudyard Kipling's story, _Bedalia
Herodsfoot_, the unfortunate woman's husband ran the risk of being
arrested as a simple drunkard, at a moment when the blood of murder
was upon his boots. The case of Ralph Summertrees was rather the
reverse of this. The English authorities were trying to fasten upon
him a crime almost as important as murder, while I was collecting
evidence which proved him guilty of an action much more momentous than
that of drunkenness.
The English authorities have always been good enough, when they
recognise my existence at all, to look down upon me with amused
condescension. If today you ask Spenser Hale, of Scotland Yard, what
he thinks of Eugène Valmont, that complacent man will put on the
superior smile which so well becomes him, and if you are a very
intimate friend of his, he may draw down the lid of his right eye, as
he replies,--
'Oh, yes, a very decent fellow, Valmont, but he's a Frenchman,' as if,
that said, there was no need of further inquiry.
Myself, I like the English detective very much, and if I were to be in
a _mêlée_ tomorrow, there is no man I would rather find beside me than
Spenser Hale. In any situation where a fist that can fell an ox is
desirable, my friend Hale is a useful companion, but for
intellectuality, mental acumen, finesse--ah, well! I am the most
modest of men, and will say nothing.
It would amuse you to see this giant come into my room during an
evening, on the bluff pretence that he wishes to smoke a pipe with me.
There is the same difference between this good-natured giant and
myself as exists between that strong black pipe of his and my delicate
cigarette, which I smoke feverishly when he is present, to protect
myself from the fumes of his terrible tobacco. I look with delight
upon the huge man, who, with an air of the utmost good humour, and a
twinkle in his eye as he thinks he is twisting me about his finger,
vainly endeavours to obtain a hint regarding whatever case is
perplexing him at that moment. I baffle him with the ease that an
active greyhound eludes the pursuit of a heavy mastiff, then at last I
say to him with a laugh,--
'Come _mon ami_ Hale, tell me all about it, and I will help you if I
can.'
Once or twice at the beginning he shook his massive head, and replied
the secret was not his. The last time he did this I assured him that
what he said was quite correct, and then I related full particulars of
the situation in which he found himself, excepting the names, for
these he had not mentioned. I had pieced together his perplexity from
scraps of conversation in his half-hour's fishing for my advice,
which, of course, he could have had for the plain asking. Since that
time he has not come to me except with cases he feels at liberty to
reveal, and one or two complications I have happily been enabled to
unravel for him.
But, staunch as Spenser Hale holds the belief that no detective
service on earth can excel that centring in Scotland Yard, there is
one department of activity in which even he confesses that Frenchmen
are his masters, although he somewhat grudgingly qualifies his
admission by adding that we in France are constantly allowed to do
what is prohibited in England. I refer to the minute search of a house
during the owner's absence. If you read that excellent story, entitled
_The Purloined Letter_, by Edgar Allan Poe, you will find a record of
the kind of thing I mean, which is better than any description I, who
have so often taken part in such a search, can set down.
Now, these people among whom I live are proud of their phrase, 'The
Englishman's house is his castle,' and into that castle even a
policeman cannot penetrate without a legal warrant. This may be all
very well in theory, but if you are compelled to march up to a man's
house, blowing a trumpet, and rattling a snare drum, you need not be
disappointed if you fail to find what you are in search of when all
the legal restrictions are complied with. Of course, the English are a
very excellent people, a fact to which I am always proud to bear
testimony, but it must be admitted that for cold common sense the
French are very much their superiors. In Paris, if I wish to obtain an
incriminating document, I do not send the possessor a _carte postale_
to inform him of my desire, and in this procedure the French people
sanely acquiesce. I have known men who, when they go out to spend an
evening on the boulevards, toss their bunch of keys to the concierge,
saying,--
'If you hear the police rummaging about while I'm away, pray assist
them, with an expression of my distinguished consideration.'
I remember while I was chief detective in the service of the French
Government being requested to call at a certain hour at the private
hotel of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It was during the time that
Bismarck meditated a second attack upon my country, and I am happy to
say that I was then instrumental in supplying the Secret Bureau with
documents which mollified that iron man's purpose, a fact which I
think entitled me to my country's gratitude, not that I ever even
hinted such a claim when a succeeding ministry forgot my services. The
memory of a republic, as has been said by a greater man than I, is
short. However, all that has nothing to do with the incident I am
about to relate. I merely mention the crisis to excuse a momentary
forgetfulness on my part which in any other country might have been
followed by serious results to myself. But in France--ah, we
understand those things, and nothing happened.
I am the last person in the world to give myself away, as they say in
the great West. I am usually the calm, collected Eugène Valmont whom
nothing can perturb, but this was a time of great tension, and I had
become absorbed. I was alone with the minister in his private house,
and one of the papers he desired was in his bureau at the Ministry for
Foreign Affairs; at least, he thought so, and said,--
'Ah, it is in my desk at the bureau. How annoying! I must send for
it!'
'No, Excellency,' I cried, springing up in a self-oblivion the most
complete, 'it is here.' Touching the spring of a secret drawer, I
opened it, and taking out the document he wished, handed it to him.
It was not until I met his searching look, and saw the faint smile on
his lips that I realised what I had done.
'Valmont,' he said quietly, 'on whose behalf did you search my house?'
'Excellency,' I replied in tones no less agreeable than his own,
'tonight at your orders I pay a domiciliary visit to the mansion of
Baron Dumoulaine, who stands high in the estimation of the President
of the French Republic. If either of those distinguished gentlemen
should learn of my informal call and should ask me in whose interests
I made the domiciliary visit, what is it you wish that I should
reply?'
'You should reply, Valmont, that you did it in the interests of the
Secret Service.'
'I shall not fail to do so, Excellency, and in answer to your question
just now, I had the honour of searching this mansion in the interests
of the Secret Service of France.'
The Minister for Foreign Affairs laughed; a hearty laugh that
expressed no resentment.
'I merely wished to compliment you, Valmont, on the efficiency of your
search, and the excellence of your memory. This is indeed the document
which I thought was left in my office.'
I wonder what Lord Lansdowne would say if Spenser Hale showed an equal
familiarity with his private papers! But now that we have returned to
our good friend Hale, we must not keep him waiting any longer.
       *       *       *       *       *
I well remember the November day when I first heard of the Summertrees
case, because there hung over London a fog so thick that two or three
times I lost my way, and no cab was to be had at any price. The few
cabmen then in the streets were leading their animals slowly along,
making for their stables. It was one of those depressing London days
which filled me with ennui and a yearning for my own clear city of
Paris, where, if we are ever visited by a slight mist, it is at least
clean, white vapour, and not this horrible London mixture saturated
with suffocating carbon. The fog was too thick for any passer to read
the contents bills of the newspapers plastered on the pavement, and as
there were probably no races that day the newsboys were shouting what
they considered the next most important event--the election of an
American President. I bought a paper and thrust it into my pocket. It
was late when I reached my flat, and, after dining there, which was an
unusual thing for me to do, I put on my slippers, took an easy-chair
before the fire, and began to read my evening journal. I was
distressed to learn that the eloquent Mr. Bryan had been defeated. I
knew little about the silver question, but the man's oratorical powers
had appealed to me, and my sympathy was aroused because he owned many
silver mines, and yet the price of the metal was so low that
apparently he could not make a living through the operation of them.
But, of course, the cry that he was a plutocrat, and a reputed
millionaire over and over again, was bound to defeat him in a
democracy where the average voter is exceedingly poor and not
comfortably well-to-do as is the case with our peasants in France. I
always took great interest in the affairs of the huge republic to the
west, having been at some pains to inform myself accurately regarding
its politics, and although, as my readers know, I seldom quote
anything complimentary that is said of me, nevertheless, an American
client of mine once admitted that he never knew the true inwardness--I
think that was the phrase he used--of American politics until he heard
me discourse upon them. But then, he added, he had been a very busy
man all his life.
I had allowed my paper to slip to the floor, for in very truth the fog
was penetrating even into my flat, and it was becoming difficult to
read, notwithstanding the electric light. My man came in, and
announced that Mr. Spenser Hale wished to see me, and, indeed, any
night, but especially when there is rain or fog outside, I am more
pleased to talk with a friend than to read a newspaper.
'_Mon Dieu_, my dear Monsieur Hale, it is a brave man you are to
venture out in such a fog as is abroad tonight.'
'Ah, Monsieur Valmont,' said Hale with pride, 'you cannot raise a fog
like this in Paris!'
'No. There you are supreme,' I admitted, rising and saluting my
visitor, then offering him a chair.
'I see you are reading the latest news,' he said, indicating my
newspaper, 'I am very glad that man Bryan is defeated. Now we shall
have better times.'
I waved my hand as I took my chair again. I will discuss many things
with Spenser Hale, but not American politics; he does not understand
them. It is a common defect of the English to suffer complete
ignorance regarding the internal affairs of other countries.
'It is surely an important thing that brought you out on such a night
as this. The fog must be very thick in Scotland Yard.'
This delicate shaft of fancy completely missed him, and he answered
stolidly,--
'It's thick all over London, and, indeed, throughout most of England.'
'Yes, it is,' I agreed, but he did not see that either.
Still a moment later he made a remark which, if it had come from some
people I know, might have indicated a glimmer of comprehension.
'You are a very, very clever man, Monsieur Valmont, so all I need say
is that the question which brought me here is the same as that on
which the American election was fought. Now, to a countryman, I should
be compelled to give further explanation, but to you, monsieur, that
will not be necessary.'
There are times when I dislike the crafty smile and partial closing of
the eyes which always distinguishes Spenser Hale when he places on the
table a problem which he expects will baffle me. If I said he never
did baffle me, I would be wrong, of course, for sometimes the utter
simplicity of the puzzles which trouble him leads me into an intricate
involution entirely unnecessary in the circumstances.
I pressed my fingertips together, and gazed for a few moments at the
ceiling. Hale had lit his black pipe, and my silent servant placed at
his elbow the whisky and soda, then tiptoed out of the room. As the
door closed my eyes came from the ceiling to the level of Hale's
expansive countenance.
'Have they eluded you?' I asked quietly.
'Who?'
'The coiners.'
Hale's pipe dropped from his jaw, but he managed to catch it before it
reached the floor. Then he took a gulp from the tumbler.
'That was just a lucky shot,' he said.
'_Parfaitement_,' I replied carelessly.
'Now, own up, Valmont, wasn't it?'
I shrugged my shoulders. A man cannot contradict a guest in his own
house.
'Oh, stow that!' cried Hale impolitely. He is a trifle prone to strong
and even slangy expressions when puzzled. 'Tell me how you guessed
it.'
'It is very simple, _mon ami_. The question on which the American
election was fought is the price of silver, which is so low that it
has ruined Mr. Bryan, and threatens to ruin all the farmers of the west
who possess silver mines on their farms. Silver troubled America, ergo
silver troubles Scotland Yard.
'Very well, the natural inference is that someone has stolen bars of
silver. But such a theft happened three months ago, when the metal
was being unloaded from a German steamer at Southampton, and my dear
friend Spenser Hale ran down the thieves very cleverly as they were
trying to dissolve the marks off the bars with acid. Now crimes do not
run in series, like the numbers in roulette at Monte Carlo. The
thieves are men of brains. They say to themselves, "What chance is
there successfully to steal bars of silver while Mr. Hale is at
Scotland Yard?" Eh, my good friend?'
'Really, Valmont,' said Hale, taking another sip, 'sometimes you
almost persuade me that you have reasoning powers.'
'Thanks, comrade. Then it is not a _theft_ of silver we have now to
deal with. But the American election was fought on the _price_ of
silver. If silver had been high in cost, there would have been no
silver question. So the crime that is bothering you arises through the
low price of silver, and this suggests that it must be a case of
illicit coinage, for there the low price of the metal comes in. You
have, perhaps, found a more subtle illegitimate act going forward than
heretofore. Someone is making your shillings and your half-crowns from
real silver, instead of from baser metal, and yet there is a large
profit which has not hitherto been possible through the high price of
silver. With the old conditions you were familiar, but this new
element sets at nought all your previous formulae. That is how I
reasoned the matter out.'
'Well, Valmont, you have hit it. I'll say that for you; you have hit
it. There is a gang of expert coiners who are putting out real silver
money, and making a clear shilling on the half-crown. We can find no
trace of the coiners, but we know the man who is shoving the stuff.'
'That ought to be sufficient,' I suggested.
'Yes, it should, but it hasn't proved so up to date. Now I came
tonight to see if you would do one of your French tricks for us, right
on the quiet.'
'What French trick, Monsieur Spenser Hale?' I inquired with some
asperity, forgetting for the moment that the man invariably became
impolite when he grew excited.
'No offence intended,' said this blundering officer, who really is a
good-natured fellow, but always puts his foot in it, and then
apologises. 'I want someone to go through a man's house without a
search warrant, spot the evidence, let me know, and then we'll rush
the place before he has time to hide his tracks.'
'Who is this man, and where does he live?'
'His name is Ralph Summertrees, and he lives in a very natty little
bijou residence, as the advertisements call it, situated in no less a
fashionable street than Park Lane.'
'I see. What has aroused your suspicions against him?'
'Well, you know, that's an expensive district to live in; it takes a
bit of money to do the trick. This Summertrees has no ostensible
business, yet every Friday he goes to the United Capital Bank in
Piccadilly, and deposits a bag of swag, usually all silver coin.'
'Yes, and this money?'
'This money, so far as we can learn, contains a good many of these new
pieces which never saw the British Mint.'
'It's not all the new coinage, then?'
'Oh, no, he's a bit too artful for that. You see, a man can go round
London, his pockets filled with new coinage five-shilling pieces, buy
this, that, and the other, and come home with his change in legitimate
coins of the realm--half-crowns, florins, shillings, sixpences, and
all that.'
'I see. Then why don't you nab him one day when his pockets are
stuffed with illegitimate five-shilling pieces?'
'That could be done, of course, and I've thought of it, but you see,
we want to land the whole gang. Once we arrested him, without knowing
where the money came from, the real coiners would take flight.'
'How do you know he is not the real coiner himself?'
Now poor Hale is as easy to read as a book. He hesitated before
answering this question, and looked confused as a culprit caught in
some dishonest act.
'You need not be afraid to tell me,' I said soothingly after a pause.
'You have had one of your men in Mr. Summertrees' house, and so learned
that he is not the coiner. But your man has not succeeded in getting
you evidence to incriminate other people.'
'You've about hit it again, Monsieur Valmont. One of my men has been
Summertrees' butler for two weeks, but, as you say, he has found no
evidence.'
'Is he still butler?'
'Yes.'
'Now tell me how far you have got. You know that Summertrees deposits
a bag of coin every Friday in the Piccadilly bank, and I suppose the
bank has allowed you to examine one or two of the bags.'
'Yes, sir, they have, but, you see, banks are very difficult to treat
with. They don't like detectives bothering round, and whilst they do
not stand out against the law, still they never answer any more
questions than they're asked, and Mr. Summertrees has been a good
customer at the United Capital for many years.'
'Haven't you found out where the money comes from?'
'Yes, we have; it is brought there night after night by a man who
looks like a respectable city clerk, and he puts it into a large safe,
of which he holds the key, this safe being on the ground floor, in the
dining-room.'
'Haven't you followed the clerk?'
'Yes. He sleeps in the Park Lane house every night, and goes up in the
morning to an old curiosity shop in Tottenham Court Road, where he
stays all day, returning with his bag of money in the evening.'
'Why don't you arrest and question him?'
'Well, Monsieur Valmont, there is just the same objection to his
arrest as to that of Summertrees himself. We could easily arrest both,
but we have not the slightest evidence against either of them, and
then, although we put the go-betweens in clink, the worst criminals of
the lot would escape.'
'Nothing suspicious about the old curiosity shop?'
'No. It appears to be perfectly regular.'
'This game has been going on under your noses for how long?'
'For about six weeks.'
'Is Summertrees a married man?'
'No.'
'Are there any women servants in the house?'
'No, except that three charwomen come in every morning to do up the
rooms.'
'Of what is his household comprised?'
'There is the butler, then the valet, and last, the French cook.'
'Ah,' cried I, 'the French cook! This case interests me. So
Summertrees has succeeded in completely disconcerting your man? Has he
prevented him going from top to bottom of the house?'
'Oh no, he has rather assisted him than otherwise. On one occasion he
went to the safe, took out the money, had Podgers--that's my chap's
name--help him to count it, and then actually sent Podgers to the bank
with the bag of coin.'
'And Podgers has been all over the place?'
'Yes.'
'Saw no signs of a coining establishment?'
'No. It is absolutely impossible that any coining can be done there.
Besides, as I tell you, that respectable clerk brings him the money.'
'I suppose you want me to take Podgers' position?'
'Well, Monsieur Valmont, to tell you the truth, I would rather you
didn't. Podgers has done everything a man can do, but I thought if you
got into the house, Podgers assisting, you might go through it night
after night at your leisure.'
'I see. That's just a little dangerous in England. I think I should
prefer to assure myself the legitimate standing of being the amiable
Podgers' successor. You say that Summertrees has no business?'
'Well, sir, not what you might call a business. He is by the way of
being an author, but I don't count that any business.'
'Oh, an author, is he? When does he do his writing?'
'He locks himself up most of the day in his study.'
'Does he come out for lunch?'
'No; he lights a little spirit lamp inside, Podgers tells me, and
makes himself a cup of coffee, which he takes with a sandwich or two.'
'That's rather frugal fare for Park Lane.'
'Yes, Monsieur Valmont, it is, but he makes it up in the evening, when
he has a long dinner with all them foreign kickshaws you people like,
done by his French cook.'
'Sensible man! Well, Hale, I see I shall look forward with pleasure to
making the acquaintance of Mr. Summertrees. Is there any restriction on
the going and coming of your man Podgers?'
'None in the least. He can get away either night or day.'
'Very good, friend Hale, bring him here tomorrow, as soon as our
author locks himself up in his study, or rather, I should say, as soon
as the respectable clerk leaves for Tottenham Court Road, which I
should guess, as you put it, is about half an hour after his master
turns the key of the room in which he writes.'
'You are quite right in that guess, Valmont. How did you hit it?'
'Merely a surmise, Hale. There is a good deal of oddity about that
Park Lane house, so it doesn't surprise me in the least that the
master gets to work earlier in the morning than the man. I have also
a suspicion that Ralph Summertrees knows perfectly well what the
estimable Podgers is there for.'
'What makes you think that?'
'I can give no reason except that my opinion of the acuteness of
Summertrees has been gradually rising all the while you were speaking,
and at the same time my estimate of Podgers' craft has been as
steadily declining. However, bring the man here tomorrow, that I may
ask him a few questions.'
       *       *       *       *       *
Next day, about eleven o'clock, the ponderous Podgers, hat in hand,
followed his chief into my room. His broad, impassive, immobile smooth
face gave him rather more the air of a genuine butler than I had
expected, and this appearance, of course, was enhanced by his livery.
His replies to my questions were those of a well-trained servant who
will not say too much unless it is made worth his while. All in all,
Podgers exceeded my expectations, and really my friend Hale had some
justification for regarding him, as he evidently did, a triumph in his
line.
'Sit down, Mr. Hale, and you, Podgers.'
The man disregarded my invitation, standing like a statue until his
chief made a motion; then he dropped into a chair. The English are
great on discipline.
'Now, Mr. Hale, I must first congratulate you on the make-up of
Podgers. It is excellent. You depend less on artificial assistance
than we do in France, and in that I think you are right.'
'Oh, we know a bit over here, Monsieur Valmont,' said Hale, with
pardonable pride.
'Now then, Podgers, I want to ask you about this clerk. What time does
he arrive in the evening?'
'At prompt six, sir.'
'Does he ring, or let himself in with a latchkey?'
'With a latchkey, sir.'
'How does he carry the money?'
'In a little locked leather satchel, sir, flung over his shoulder.'
'Does he go direct to the dining-room?'
'Yes, sir.'
'Have you seen him unlock the safe and put in the money?'
'Yes, sir.'
'Does the safe unlock with a word or a key?'
'With a key, sir. It's one of the old-fashioned kind.'
'Then the clerk unlocks his leather money bag?'
'Yes, sir.'
'That's three keys used within as many minutes. Are they separate or
in a bunch?'
'In a bunch, sir.'
'Did you ever see your master with this bunch of keys?'
'No, sir.'
'You saw him open the safe once, I am told?'
'Yes, sir.'
'Did he use a separate key, or one of a bunch?'
Podgers slowly scratched his head, then said,--
'I don't just remember, sir.'
'Ah, Podgers, you are neglecting the big things in that house. Sure
you can't remember?'
'No, sir.'
'Once the money is in and the safe locked up, what does the clerk do?'
'Goes to his room, sir.'
'Where is this room?'
'On the third floor, sir.'
'Where do you sleep?'
'On the fourth floor with the rest of the servants, sir.'
'Where does the master sleep?'
'On the second floor, adjoining his study.'
'The house consists of four stories and a basement, does it?'
'Yes, sir.'
'I have somehow arrived at the suspicion that it is a very narrow
house. Is that true?'
'Yes, sir.'
'Does the clerk ever dine with your master?'
'No, sir. The clerk don't eat in the house at all, sir.'
'Does he go away before breakfast?'
'No, sir.'
'No one takes breakfast to his room?'
'No, sir.'
'What time does he leave the house?'
'At ten o'clock, sir.'
'When is breakfast served?'
'At nine o'clock, sir.'
'At what hour does your master retire to his study?'
'At half-past nine, sir.'
'Locks the door on the inside?'
'Yes, sir.'
'Never rings for anything during the day?'
'Not that I know of, sir.'
'What sort of a man is he?'
Here Podgers was on familiar ground, and he rattled off a description
minute in every particular.
'What I meant was, Podgers, is he silent, or talkative, or does he get
angry? Does he seem furtive, suspicious, anxious, terrorised, calm,
excitable, or what?'
'Well, sir, he is by way of being very quiet, never has much to say
for himself; never saw him angry, or excited.'
'Now, Podgers, you've been at Park Lane for a fortnight or more. You
are a sharp, alert, observant man. What happens there that strikes you
as unusual?'
'Well, I can't exactly say, sir,' replied Podgers, looking rather
helplessly from his chief to myself, and back again.
'Your professional duties have often compelled you to enact the part
of butler before, otherwise you wouldn't do it so well. Isn't that the
case.'
Podgers did not reply, but glanced at his chief. This was evidently a
question pertaining to the service, which a subordinate was not
allowed to answer. However, Hale said at once,--
'Certainly. Podgers has been in dozens of places.'
'Well, Podgers, just call to mind some of the other households where
you have been employed, and tell me any particulars in which Mr
Summertrees' establishment differs from them.'
Podgers pondered a long time.
'Well, sir, he do stick to writing pretty close.'
'Ah, that's his profession, you see, Podgers. Hard at it from
half-past nine till towards seven, I imagine?'
'Yes, sir.'
'Anything else, Podgers? No matter how trivial.'
'Well, sir, he's fond of reading too; leastways, he's fond of
newspapers.'
'When does he read?'
'I've never seen him read 'em, sir; indeed, so far as I can tell, I
never knew the papers to be opened, but he takes them all in, sir.'
'What, all the morning papers?'
'Yes, sir, and all the evening papers too.'
'Where are the morning papers placed?'
'On the table in his study, sir.'
'And the evening papers?'
'Well, sir, when the evening papers come, the study is locked. They
are put on a side table in the dining-room, and he takes them upstairs
with him to his study.'
'This has happened every day since you've been there?'
'Yes, sir.'
'You reported that very striking fact to your chief, of course?'
'No, sir, I don't think I did,' said Podgers, confused.
'You should have done so. Mr. Hale would have known how to make the
most of a point so vital.'
'Oh, come now, Valmont,' interrupted Hale, 'you're chaffing us. Plenty
of people take in all the papers!'
'I think not. Even clubs and hotels subscribe to the leading journals
only. You said _all_, I think, Podgers?'
'Well, _nearly_ all, sir.'
'But which is it? There's a vast difference.'
'He takes a good many, sir.'
'How many?'
'I don't just know, sir.'
'That's easily found out, Valmont,' cried Hale, with some impatience,
'if you think it really important.'
'I think it so important that I'm going back with Podgers myself. You
can take me into the house, I suppose, when you return?'
'Oh, yes, sir.'
'Coming back to these newspapers for a moment, Podgers. What is done
with them?'
'They are sold to the ragman, sir, once a week.'
'Who takes them from the study?'
'I do, sir.'
'Do they appear to have been read very carefully?'
'Well, no, sir; leastways, some of them seem never to have been
opened, or else folded up very carefully again.'
'Did you notice that extracts have been clipped from any of them?'
'No, sir.'
'Does Mr. Summertrees keep a scrapbook?'
'Not that I know of, sir.'
'Oh, the case is perfectly plain,' said I, leaning back in my chair,
and regarding the puzzled Hale with that cherubic expression of
self-satisfaction which I know is so annoying to him.
'_What's_ perfectly plain?' he demanded, more gruffly perhaps than
etiquette would have sanctioned.
'Summertrees is no coiner, nor is he linked with any band of coiners.'
'What is he, then?'
'Ah, that opens another avenue of enquiry. For all I know to the
contrary, he may be the most honest of men. On the surface it would
appear that he is a reasonably industrious tradesman in Tottenham
Court Road, who is anxious that there should be no visible connection
between a plebian employment and so aristocratic a residence as that
in Park Lane.'
At this point Spenser Hale gave expression to one of those rare
flashes of reason which are always an astonishment to his friends.
'That is nonsense, Monsieur Valmont,' he said, 'the man who is ashamed
of the connection between his business and his house is one who is
trying to get into Society, or else the women of his family are trying
it, as is usually the case. Now Summertrees has no family. He himself
goes nowhere, gives no entertainments, and accepts no invitations. He
belongs to no club, therefore to say that he is ashamed of his
connection with the Tottenham Court Road shop is absurd. He is
concealing the connection for some other reason that will bear looking
into.'
'My dear Hale, the goddess of Wisdom herself could not have made a
more sensible series of remarks. Now, _mon ami_, do you want my
assistance, or have you enough to go on with?'
'Enough to go on with? We have nothing more than we had when I called
on you last night.'
'Last night, my dear Hale, you supposed this man was in league with
coiners. Today you know he is not.'
'I know you _say_ he is not.'
I shrugged my shoulders, and raised my eyebrows, smiling at him.
'It is the same thing, Monsieur Hale.'
'Well, of all the conceited--' and the good Hale could get no further.
'If you wish my assistance, it is yours.'
'Very good. Not to put too fine a point upon it, I do.'
'In that case, my dear Podgers, you will return to the residence of
our friend Summertrees, and get together for me in a bundle all of
yesterday's morning and evening papers, that were delivered to the
house. Can you do that, or are they mixed up in a heap in the coal
cellar?'
'I can do it, sir. I have instructions to place each day's papers in a
pile by itself in case they should be wanted again. There is always
one week's supply in the cellar, and we sell the papers of the week
before to the rag men.'
'Excellent. Well, take the risk of abstracting one day's journals, and
have them ready for me. I will call upon you at half-past three
o'clock exactly, and then I want you to take me upstairs to the
clerk's bedroom in the third story, which I suppose is not locked
during the daytime?'
'No, sir, it is not.'
With this the patient Podgers took his departure. Spenser Hale rose
when his assistant left.
'Anything further I can do?' he asked.
'Yes; give me the address of the shop in Tottenham Court Road. Do you
happen to have about you one of those new five-shilling pieces which
you believe to be illegally coined?'
He opened his pocket-book, took out the bit of white metal, and handed
it to me.
'I'm going to pass this off before evening,' I said, putting it in my
pocket, 'and I hope none of your men will arrest me.'
'That's all right,' laughed Hale as he took his leave.
At half-past three Podgers was waiting for me, and opened the front
door as I came up the steps, thus saving me the necessity of ringing.
The house seemed strangely quiet. The French cook was evidently down
in the basement, and we had probably all the upper part to ourselves,
unless Summertrees was in his study, which I doubted. Podgers led me
directly upstairs to the clerk's room on the third floor, walking on
tiptoe, with an elephantine air of silence and secrecy combined, which
struck me as unnecessary.
'I will make an examination of this room,' I said. 'Kindly wait for me
down by the door of the study.'
The bedroom proved to be of respectable size when one considers the
smallness of the house. The bed was all nicely made up, and there were
two chairs in the room, but the usual washstand and swing-mirror were
not visible. However, seeing a curtain at the farther end of the room,
I drew it aside, and found, as I expected, a fixed lavatory in an
alcove of perhaps four feet deep by five in width. As the room was
about fifteen feet wide, this left two-thirds of the space unaccounted
for. A moment later, I opened a door which exhibited a closet filled
with clothes hanging on hooks. This left a space of five feet between
the clothes closet and the lavatory. I thought at first that the
entrance to the secret stairway must have issued from the lavatory,
but examining the boards closely, although they sounded hollow to the
knuckles, they were quite evidently plain matchboarding, and not a
concealed door. The entrance to the stairway, therefore, must issue
from the clothes closet. The right hand wall proved similar to the
matchboarding of the lavatory as far as the casual eye or touch was
concerned, but I saw at once it was a door. The latch turned out to be
somewhat ingeniously operated by one of the hooks which held a pair of
old trousers. I found that the hook, if pressed upward, allowed the
door to swing outward, over the stairhead. Descending to the second
floor, a similar latch let me in to a similar clothes closet in the
room beneath. The two rooms were identical in size, one directly above
the other, the only difference being that the lower room door gave
into the study, instead of into the hall, as was the case with the
upper chamber.
The study was extremely neat, either not much used, or the abode of a
very methodical man. There was nothing on the table except a pile of
that morning's papers. I walked to the farther end, turned the key in
the lock, and came out upon the astonished Podgers.
'Well, I'm blowed!' exclaimed he.
'Quite so,' I rejoined, 'you've been tiptoeing past an empty room for
the last two weeks. Now, if you'll come with me, Podgers, I'll show
you how the trick is done.'
When he entered the study, I locked the door once more, and led the
assumed butler, still tiptoeing through force of habit, up the stair
into the top bedroom, and so out again, leaving everything exactly as
we found it. We went down the main stair to the front hall, and there
Podgers had my parcel of papers all neatly wrapped up. This bundle I
carried to my flat, gave one of my assistants some instructions, and
left him at work on the papers.
       *       *       *       *       *
I took a cab to the foot of Tottenham Court Road, and walked up that
street till I came to J. Simpson's old curiosity shop. After gazing at
the well-filled windows for some time, I stepped aside, having
selected a little iron crucifix displayed behind the pane; the work of
some ancient craftsman.
I knew at once from Podgers's description that I was waited upon by
the veritable respectable clerk who brought the bag of money each
night to Park Lane, and who I was certain was no other than Ralph
Summertrees himself.
There was nothing in his manner differing from that of any other quiet
salesman. The price of the crucifix proved to be seven-and-six, and I
threw down a sovereign to pay for it.
'Do you mind the change being all in silver, sir?' he asked, and I
answered without any eagerness, although the question aroused a
suspicion that had begun to be allayed,--
'Not in the least.'
He gave me half-a-crown, three two-shilling pieces, and four separate
shillings, all the coins being well-worn silver of the realm, the
undoubted inartistic product of the reputable British Mint. This
seemed to dispose of the theory that he was palming off illegitimate
money. He asked me if I were interested in any particular branch of
antiquity, and I replied that my curiosity was merely general, and
exceedingly amateurish, whereupon he invited me to look around. This I
proceeded to do, while he resumed the addressing and stamping of some
wrapped-up pamphlets which I surmised to be copies of his catalogue.
He made no attempt either to watch me or to press his wares upon me. I
selected at random a little ink-stand, and asked its price. It was two
shillings, he said, whereupon I produced my fraudulent five-shilling
piece. He took it, gave me the change without comment, and the last
doubt about his connection with coiners flickered from my mind.
At this moment a young man came in, who, I saw at once, was not a
customer. He walked briskly to the farther end of the shop, and
disappeared behind a partition which had one pane of glass in it that
gave an outlook towards the front door.
'Excuse me a moment,' said the shopkeeper, and he followed the young
man into the private office.
As I examined the curious heterogeneous collection of things for sale,
I heard the clink of coins being poured out on the lid of a desk or an
uncovered table, and the murmur of voices floated out to me. I was now
near the entrance of the shop, and by a sleight-of-hand trick, keeping
the corner of my eye on the glass pane of the private office, I
removed the key of the front door without a sound, and took an
impression of it in wax, returning the key to its place unobserved. At
this moment another young man came in, and walked straight past me
into the private office. I heard him say,--
'Oh, I beg pardon, Mr. Simpson. How are you, Rogers?'
'Hallo, Macpherson,' saluted Rogers, who then came out, bidding
good-night to Mr. Simpson, and departed whistling down the street, but
not before he had repeated his phrase to another young man entering,
to whom he gave the name of Tyrrel.
I noted these three names in my mind. Two others came in together, but
I was compelled to content myself with memorising their features, for
I did not learn their names. These men were evidently collectors, for
I heard the rattle of money in every case; yet here was a small shop,
doing apparently very little business, for I had been within it for
more than half an hour, and yet remained the only customer. If credit
were given, one collector would certainly have been sufficient, yet
five had come in, and had poured their contributions into the pile
Summertrees was to take home with him that night.
I determined to secure one of the pamphlets which the man had been
addressing. They were piled on a shelf behind the counter, but I had
no difficulty in reaching across and taking the one on top, which I
slipped into my pocket. When the fifth young man went down the street
Summertrees himself emerged, and this time he carried in his hand the
well-filled locked leather satchel, with the straps dangling. It was
now approaching half-past five, and I saw he was eager to close up and
get away.
'Anything else you fancy, sir?' he asked me.
'No, or rather yes and no. You have a very interesting collection
here, but it's getting so dark I can hardly see.'
'I close at half-past five, sir.'
'Ah, in that case,' I said, consulting my watch, 'I shall be pleased
to call some other time.'
'Thank you, sir,' replied Summertrees quietly, and with that I took my
leave.
From the corner of an alley on the other side of the street I saw him
put up the shutters with his own hands, then he emerged with overcoat
on, and the money satchel slung across his shoulder. He locked the
door, tested it with his knuckles, and walked down the street,
carrying under one arm the pamphlets he had been addressing. I
followed him some distance, saw him drop the pamphlets into the box at
the first post office he passed, and walk rapidly towards his house in
Park Lane.
When I returned to my flat and called in my assistant, he said,--
'After putting to one side the regular advertisements of pills, soap,
and what not, here is the only one common to all the newspapers,
morning and evening alike. The advertisements are not identical, sir,
but they have two points of similarity, or perhaps I should say three.
They all profess to furnish a cure for absent-mindedness; they all ask
that the applicant's chief hobby shall be stated, and they all bear
the same address: Dr. Willoughby, in Tottenham Court Road.'
'Thank you,' said I, as he placed the scissored advertisements before
me.
I read several of the announcements. They were all small, and perhaps
that is why I had never noticed one of them in the newspapers, for
certainly they were odd enough. Some asked for lists of absent-minded
men, with the hobbies of each, and for these lists, prizes of from one
shilling to six were offered. In other clippings Dr. Willoughby
professed to be able to cure absent-mindedness. There were no fees, and
no treatment, but a pamphlet would be sent, which, if it did not benefit
the receiver, could do no harm. The doctor was unable to meet patients
personally, nor could he enter into correspondence with them. The
address was the same as that of the old curiosity shop in Tottenham
Court Road. At this juncture I pulled the pamphlet from my pocket, and
saw it was entitled _Christian Science and Absent-Mindedness_, by Dr.
Stamford Willoughby, and at the end of the article was the statement
contained in the advertisements, that Dr. Willoughby would neither see
patients nor hold any correspondence with them.
I drew a sheet of paper towards me, wrote to Dr. Willoughby alleging
that I was a very absent-minded man, and would be glad of his
pamphlet, adding that my special hobby was the collecting of first
editions. I then signed myself, 'Alport Webster, Imperial Flats,
London, W.'
I may here explain that it is often necessary for me to see people
under some other name than the well-known appellation of Eugène
Valmont. There are two doors to my flat, and on one of these is
painted, 'Eugène Valmont'; on the other there is a receptacle, into
which can be slipped a sliding panel bearing any _nom de guerre_ I
choose. The same device is arranged on the ground floor, where the
names of all the occupants of the building appear on the right-hand
wall.
I sealed, addressed, and stamped my letter, then told my man to put
out the name of Alport Webster, and if I did not happen to be in when
anyone called upon that mythical person, he was to make an appointment
for me.
It was nearly six o'clock next afternoon when the card of Angus
Macpherson was brought in to Mr. Alport Webster. I recognised the young
man at once as the second who had entered the little shop carrying his
tribute to Mr. Simpson the day before. He held three volumes under his
arm, and spoke in such a pleasant, insinuating sort of way, that I
knew at once he was an adept in his profession of canvasser.
'Will you be seated, Mr. Macpherson? In what can I serve you?'
He placed the three volumes, backs upward, on my table.
'Are you interested at all in first editions, Mr. Webster?'
'It is the one thing I am interested in,' I replied; 'but
unfortunately they often run into a lot of money.'
'That is true,' said Macpherson sympathetically, 'and I have here
three books, one of which is an exemplification of what you say. This
one costs a hundred pounds. The last copy that was sold by auction in
London brought a hundred and twenty-three pounds. This next one is
forty pounds, and the third ten pounds. At these prices I am certain
you could not duplicate three such treasures in any book shop in
Britain.'
I examined them critically, and saw at once that what he said was
true. He was still standing on the opposite side of the table.
'Please take a chair, Mr. Macpherson. Do you mean to say you go round
London with a hundred and fifty pounds' worth of goods under your arm
in this careless way?'
The young man laughed.
'I run very little risk, Mr. Webster. I don't suppose anyone I meet
imagines for a moment there is more under my arm than perhaps a trio
of volumes I have picked up in the fourpenny box to take home with
me.'
I lingered over the volume for which he asked a hundred pounds, then
said, looking across at him:--
'How came you to be possessed of this book, for instance?'
He turned upon me a fine, open countenance, and answered without
hesitation in the frankest possible manner,--
'I am not in actual possession of it, Mr. Webster. I am by way of being
a connoisseur in rare and valuable books myself, although, of course,
I have little money with which to indulge in the collection of them. I
am acquainted, however, with the lovers of desirable books in
different quarters of London. These three volumes, for instance, are
from the library of a private gentleman in the West End. I have sold
many books to him, and he knows I am trustworthy. He wishes to dispose
of them at something under their real value, and has kindly allowed me
to conduct the negotiation. I make it my business to find out those
who are interested in rare books, and by such trading I add
considerably to my income.'
'How, for instance, did you learn that I was a bibliophile?'
Mr. Macpherson laughed genially.
'Well, Mr. Webster, I must confess that I chanced it. I do that very
often. I take a flat like this, and send in my card to the name on the
door. If I am invited in, I ask the occupant the question I asked you
just now: "Are you interested in rare editions?" If he says no, I
simply beg pardon and retire. If he says yes, then I show my wares.'
'I see,' said I, nodding. What a glib young liar he was, with that
innocent face of his, and yet my next question brought forth the
truth.
'As this is the first time you have called upon me, Mr. Macpherson,
you have no objection to my making some further inquiry, I suppose.
Would you mind telling me the name of the owner of these books in the
West End?'
'His name is Mr. Ralph Summertrees, of Park Lane.'
'Of Park Lane? Ah, indeed.'
'I shall be glad to leave the books with you, Mr. Webster, and if you
care to make an appointment with Mr. Summertrees, I am sure he will not
object to say a word in my favour.'
'Oh, I do not in the least doubt it, and should not think of troubling
the gentleman.'
'I was going to tell you,' went on the young man, 'that I have a
friend, a capitalist, who, in a way, is my supporter; for, as I said,
I have little money of my own. I find it is often inconvenient for
people to pay down any considerable sum. When, however, I strike a
bargain, my capitalist buys the book, and I make an arrangement with
my customer to pay a certain amount each week, and so even a large
purchase is not felt, as I make the instalments small enough to suit
my client.'
'You are employed during the day, I take it?'
'Yes, I am a clerk in the City.'
Again we were in the blissful realms of fiction!
'Suppose I take this book at ten pounds, what instalment should I have
to pay each week?'
'Oh, what you like, sir. Would five shillings be too much?'
'I think not.'
'Very well, sir, if you pay me five shillings now, I will leave the
book with you, and shall have pleasure in calling this day week for
the next instalment.'
I put my hand into my pocket, and drew out two half-crowns, which I
passed over to him.
'Do I need to sign any form or undertaking to pay the rest?'
The young man laughed cordially.
'Oh, no, sir, there is no formality necessary. You see, sir, this is
largely a labour of love with me, although I don't deny I have my eye
on the future. I am getting together what I hope will be a very
valuable connection with gentlemen like yourself who are fond of
books, and I trust some day that I may be able to resign my place with
the insurance company and set up a choice little business of my own,
where my knowledge of values in literature will prove useful.'
And then, after making a note in a little book he took from his
pocket, he bade me a most graceful good-bye and departed, leaving me
cogitating over what it all meant.
Next morning two articles were handed to me. The first came by post
and was a pamphlet on _Christian Science and Absent-Mindedness_,
exactly similar to the one I had taken away from the old curiosity
shop; the second was a small key made from my wax impression that
would fit the front door of the same shop--a key fashioned by an
excellent anarchist friend of mine in an obscure street near Holborn.
That night at ten o'clock I was inside the old curiosity shop, with a
small storage battery in my pocket, and a little electric glow-lamp at
my buttonhole, a most useful instrument for either burglar or
detective.
I had expected to find the books of the establishment in a safe,
which, if it was similar to the one in Park Lane, I was prepared to
open with the false keys in my possession or to take an impression of
the keyhole and trust to my anarchist friend for the rest. But to my
amazement I discovered all the papers pertaining to the concern in a
desk which was not even locked. The books, three in number, were the
ordinary day book, journal, and ledger referring to the shop;
book-keeping of the older fashion; but in a portfolio lay half a dozen
foolscap sheets, headed 'Mr. Rogers's List', 'Mr. Macpherson's', 'Mr.
Tyrrel's', the names I had already learned, and three others. These
lists contained in the first column, names; in the second column,
addresses; in the third, sums of money; and then in the small, square
places following were amounts ranging from two-and-sixpence to a
pound. At the bottom of Mr. Macpherson's list was the name Alport
Webster, Imperial Flats, £10; then in the small, square place, five
shillings. These six sheets, each headed by a canvasser's name, were
evidently the record of current collections, and the innocence of the
whole thing was so apparent that if it were not for my fixed rule
never to believe that I am at the bottom of any case until I have come
on something suspicious, I would have gone out empty-handed as I came
in.
The six sheets were loose in a thin portfolio, but standing on a shelf
above the desk were a number of fat volumes, one of which I took down,
and saw that it contained similar lists running back several years. I
noticed on Mr. Macpherson's current list the name of Lord Semptam, an
eccentric old nobleman whom I knew slightly. Then turning to the list
immediately before the current one the name was still there; I traced
it back through list after list until I found the first entry, which
was no less than three years previous, and there Lord Semptam was down
for a piece of furniture costing fifty pounds, and on that account he
had paid a pound a week for more than three years, totalling a hundred
and seventy pounds at the least, and instantly the glorious simplicity
of the scheme dawned upon me, and I became so interested in the
swindle that I lit the gas, fearing my little lamp would be exhausted
before my investigation ended, for it promised to be a long one.
In several instances the intended victim proved shrewder than old
Simpson had counted upon, and the word 'Settled' had been written on
the line carrying the name when the exact number of instalments was
paid. But as these shrewd persons dropped out, others took their
places, and Simpson's dependence on their absent-mindedness seemed to
be justified in nine cases out of ten. His collectors were collecting
long after the debt had been paid. In Lord Semptam's case, the payment
had evidently become chronic, and the old man was giving away his
pound a week to the suave Macpherson two years after his debt had been
liquidated.
From the big volume I detached the loose leaf, dated 1893, which
recorded Lord Semptam's purchase of a carved table for fifty pounds,
and on which he had been paying a pound a week from that time to the
date of which I am writing, which was November, 1896. This single
document taken from the file of three years previous, was not likely
to be missed, as would have been the case if I had selected a current
sheet. I nevertheless made a copy of the names and addresses of
Macpherson's present clients; then, carefully placing everything
exactly as I had found it, I extinguished the gas, and went out of the
shop, locking the door behind me. With the 1893 sheet in my pocket I
resolved to prepare a pleasant little surprise for my suave friend
Macpherson when he called to get his next instalment of five
shillings.
Late as was the hour when I reached Trafalgar Square, I could not
deprive myself of the felicity of calling on Mr. Spenser Hale, who I
knew was then on duty. He never appeared at his best during office
hours, because officialism stiffened his stalwart frame. Mentally he
was impressed with the importance of his position, and added to this
he was not then allowed to smoke his big, black pipe and terrible
tobacco. He received me with the curtness I had been taught to expect
when I inflicted myself upon him at his office. He greeted me abruptly
with,--
'I say, Valmont, how long do you expect to be on this job?'
'What job?' I asked mildly.
'Oh, you know what I mean: the Summertrees affair.'
'Oh, _that_!' I exclaimed, with surprise. 'The Summertrees case is
already completed, of course. If I had known you were in a hurry, I
should have finished up everything yesterday, but as you and Podgers,
and I don't know how many more, have been at it sixteen or seventeen
days, if not longer, I thought I might venture to take as many hours,
as I am working entirely alone. You said nothing about haste, you
know.'
'Oh, come now, Valmont, that's a bit thick. Do you mean to say you
have already got evidence against the man?'
'Evidence absolute and complete.'
'Then who are the coiners?'
'My most estimable friend, how often have I told you not to jump at
conclusions? I informed you when you first spoke to me about the
matter that Summertrees was neither a coiner nor a confederate of
coiners. I secured evidence sufficient to convict him of quite another
offence, which is probably unique in the annals of crime. I have
penetrated the mystery of the shop, and discovered the reason for all
those suspicious actions which quite properly set you on his trail.
Now I wish you to come to my flat next Wednesday night at a quarter to
six, prepared to make an arrest.'
'I must know who I am to arrest, and on what counts.'
'Quite so, _mon ami_ Hale; I did not say you were to make an arrest,
but merely warned you to be prepared. If you have time now to listen
to the disclosures, I am quite at your service. I promise you there
are some original features in the case. If, however, the present
moment is inopportune, drop in on me at your convenience, previously
telephoning so that you may know whether I am there or not, and thus
your valuable time will not be expended purposelessly.'
With this I presented to him my most courteous bow, and although his
mystified expression hinted a suspicion that he thought I was chaffing
him, as he would call it, official dignity dissolved somewhat, and he
intimated his desire to hear all about it then and there. I had
succeeded in arousing my friend Hale's curiosity. He listened to the
evidence with perplexed brow, and at last ejaculated he would be
blessed.
'This young man,' I said, in conclusion, 'will call upon me at six on
Wednesday afternoon, to receive his second five shillings. I propose
that you, in your uniform, shall be seated there with me to receive
him, and I am anxious to study Mr. Macpherson's countenance when he
realises he has walked in to confront a policeman. If you will then
allow me to cross-examine him for a few moments, not after the manner
of Scotland Yard, with a warning lest he incriminate himself, but in
the free and easy fashion we adopt in Paris, I shall afterwards turn
the case over to you to be dealt with at your discretion.'
'You have a wonderful flow of language, Monsieur Valmont,' was the
officer's tribute to me. 'I shall be on hand at a quarter to six on
Wednesday.'
'Meanwhile,' said I, 'kindly say nothing of this to anyone. We must
arrange a complete surprise for Macpherson. That is essential. Please
make no move in the matter at all until Wednesday night.'
Spenser Hale, much impressed, nodded acquiescence, and I took a polite
leave of him.
       *       *       *       *       *
The question of lighting is an important one in a room such as mine,
and electricity offers a good deal of scope to the ingenious. Of this
fact I have taken full advantage. I can manipulate the lighting of my
room so that any particular spot is bathed in brilliancy, while the
rest of the space remains in comparative gloom, and I arranged the
lamps so that the full force of their rays impinged against the door
that Wednesday evening, while I sat on one side of the table in
semi-darkness and Hale sat on the other, with a light beating down on
him from above which gave him the odd, sculptured look of a living
statue of Justice, stern and triumphant. Anyone entering the room
would first be dazzled by the light, and next would see the gigantic
form of Hale in the full uniform of his order.
When Angus Macpherson was shown into this room he was quite visibly
taken aback, and paused abruptly on the threshold, his gaze riveted on
the huge policeman. I think his first purpose was to turn and run, but
the door closed behind him, and he doubtless heard, as we all did,
the sound of the bolt being thrust in its place, thus locking him in.
'I--I beg your pardon,' he stammered, 'I expected to meet Mr. Webster.'
As he said this, I pressed the button under my table, and was
instantly enshrouded with light. A sickly smile overspread the
countenance of Macpherson as he caught sight of me, and he made a very
creditable attempt to carry off the situation with nonchalance.
'Oh, there you are, Mr. Webster; I did not notice you at first.'
It was a tense moment. I spoke slowly and impressively.
'Sir, perhaps you are not unacquainted with the name of Eugène
Valmont.'
He replied brazenly,--
'I am sorry to say, sir, I never heard of the gentleman before.'
At this came a most inopportune 'Haw-haw' from that blockhead Spenser
Hale, completely spoiling the dramatic situation I had elaborated with
such thought and care. It is little wonder the English possess no
drama, for they show scant appreciation of the sensational moments in
life.
'Haw-haw,' brayed Spenser Hale, and at once reduced the emotional
atmosphere to a fog of commonplace. However, what is a man to do? He
must handle the tools with which it pleases Providence to provide him.
I ignored Hale's untimely laughter.
'Sit down, sir,' I said to Macpherson, and he obeyed.
'You have called on Lord Semptam this week,' I continued sternly.
'Yes, sir.'
'And collected a pound from him?'
'Yes, sir.'
'In October, 1893, you sold Lord Semptam a carved antique table for
fifty pounds?'
'Quite right, sir.'
'When you were here last week you gave me Ralph Summertrees as the
name of a gentleman living in Park Lane. You knew at the time that
this man was your employer?'
Macpherson was now looking fixedly at me, and on this occasion made no
reply. I went on calmly:--
'You also knew that Summertrees, of Park Lane, was identical with
Simpson, of Tottenham Court Road?'
'Well, sir,' said Macpherson, 'I don't exactly see what you're
driving at, but it's quite usual for a man to carry on a business
under an assumed name. There is nothing illegal about that.'
'We will come to the illegality in a moment, Mr. Macpherson. You, and
Rogers, and Tyrrel, and three others, are confederates of this man
Simpson.'
'We are in his employ; yes, sir, but no more confederates than clerks
usually are.'
'I think, Mr. Macpherson, I have said enough to show you that the game
is, what you call, up. You are now in the presence of Mr. Spenser Hale,
from Scotland Yard, who is waiting to hear your confession.'
Here the stupid Hale broke in with his--
'And remember, sir, that anything you say will be--'
'Excuse me, Mr. Hale,' I interrupted hastily, 'I shall turn over the
case to you in a very few moments, but I ask you to remember our
compact, and to leave it for the present entirely in my hands. Now, Mr
Macpherson, I want your confession, and I want it at once.'
'Confession? Confederates?' protested Macpherson with admirably
simulated surprise. 'I must say you use extraordinary terms,
Mr--Mr--What did you say the name was?'
'Haw-haw,' roared Hale. 'His name is Monsieur Valmont.'
'I implore you, Mr. Hale, to leave this man to me for a very few
moments. Now, Macpherson, what have you to say in your defence?'
'Where nothing criminal has been alleged, Monsieur Valmont, I see no
necessity for defence. If you wish me to admit that somehow you have
acquired a number of details regarding our business, I am perfectly
willing to do so, and to subscribe to their accuracy. If you will be
good enough to let me know of what you complain, I shall endeavour to
make the point clear to you if I can. There has evidently been some
misapprehension, but for the life of me, without further explanation,
I am as much in a fog as I was on my way coming here, for it is
getting a little thick outside.'
Macpherson certainly was conducting himself with great discretion, and
presented, quite unconsciously, a much more diplomatic figure than my
friend, Spenser Hale, sitting stiffly opposite me. His tone was one of
mild expostulation, mitigated by the intimation that all
misunderstanding speedily would be cleared away. To outward view he
offered a perfect picture of innocence, neither protesting too much
nor too little. I had, however, another surprise in store for him, a
trump card, as it were, and I played it down on the table.
'There!' I cried with vim, 'have you ever seen that sheet before?'
He glanced at it without offering to take it in his hand.
'Oh, yes,' he said, 'that has been abstracted from our file. It is
what I call my visiting list.'
'Come, come, sir,' I cried sternly, 'you refuse to confess, but I warn
you we know all about it. You never heard of Dr. Willoughby, I
suppose?'
'Yes, he is the author of the silly pamphlet on Christian Science.'
'You are in the right, Mr. Macpherson; on Christian Science and
Absent-Mindedness.'
'Possibly. I haven't read it for a long while.'
'Have you ever met this learned doctor, Mr. Macpherson?'
'Oh, yes. Dr. Willoughby is the pen-name of Mr. Summertrees. He believes
in Christian Science and that sort of thing, and writes about it.'
'Ah, really. We are getting your confession bit by bit, Mr. Macpherson.
I think it would be better to be quite frank with us.'
'I was just going to make the same suggestion to you, Monsieur
Valmont. If you will tell me in a few words exactly what is your
charge against either Mr. Summertrees or myself, I will know then what
to say.'
'We charge you, sir, with obtaining money under false pretences, which
is a crime that has landed more than one distinguished financier in
prison.'
Spenser Hale shook his fat forefinger at me, and said,--
'Tut, tut, Valmont; we mustn't threaten, we mustn't threaten, you
know;' but I went on without heeding him.
'Take for instance, Lord Semptam. You sold him a table for fifty
pounds, on the instalment plan. He was to pay a pound a week, and in
less than a year the debt was liquidated. But he is an absent-minded
man, as all your clients are. That is why you came to me. I had
answered the bogus Willoughby's advertisement. And so you kept on
collecting and collecting for something more than three years. Now do
you understand the charge?'
Mr. Macpherson's head during this accusation was held slightly inclined
to one side. At first his face was clouded by the most clever
imitation of anxious concentration of mind I had ever seen, and this
was gradually cleared away by the dawn of awakening perception. When I
had finished, an ingratiating smile hovered about his lips.
'Really, you know,' he said, 'that is rather a capital scheme. The
absent-minded league, as one might call them. Most ingenious.
Summertrees, if he had any sense of humour, which he hasn't, would be
rather taken by the idea that his innocent fad for Christian Science
had led him to be suspected of obtaining money under false pretences.
But, really, there are no pretensions about the matter at all. As I
understand it, I simply call and receive the money through the
forgetfulness of the persons on my list, but where I think you would
have both Summertrees and myself, if there was anything in your
audacious theory, would be an indictment for conspiracy. Still, I
quite see how the mistake arises. You have jumped to the conclusion
that we sold nothing to Lord Semptam except that carved table three
years ago. I have pleasure in pointing out to you that his lordship is
a frequent customer of ours, and has had many things from us at one
time or another. Sometimes he is in our debt; sometimes we are in his.
We keep a sort of running contract with him by which he pays us a
pound a week. He and several other customers deal on the same plan,
and in return for an income that we can count upon, they get the first
offer of anything in which they are supposed to be interested. As I
have told you, we call these sheets in the office our visiting lists,
but to make the visiting lists complete you need what we term our
encyclopaedia. We call it that because it is in so many volumes; a
volume for each year, running back I don't know how long. You will
notice little figures here from time to time above the amount stated
on this visiting list. These figures refer to the page of the
encyclopaedia for the current year, and on that page is noted the new
sale, and the amount of it, as it might be set down, say, in a
ledger.'
'That is a very entertaining explanation, Mr. Macpherson. I suppose
this encyclopaedia, as you call it, is in the shop at Tottenham Court
Road?'
'Oh, no, sir. Each volume of the encyclopaedia is self-locking. These
books contain the real secret of our business, and they are kept in
the safe at Mr. Summertrees' house in Park Lane. Take Lord Semptam's
account, for instance. You will find in faint figures under a certain
date, 102. If you turn to page 102 of the encyclopaedia for that year,
you will then see a list of what Lord Semptam has bought, and the
prices he was charged for them. It is really a very simple matter. If
you will allow me to use your telephone for a moment, I will ask Mr
Summertrees, who has not yet begun dinner, to bring with him here the
volume for 1893, and, within a quarter of an hour, you will be
perfectly satisfied that everything is quite legitimate.'
I confess that the young man's naturalness and confidence staggered
me, the more so as I saw by the sarcastic smile on Hale's lips that he
did not believe a single word spoken. A portable telephone stood on
the table, and as Macpherson finished his explanation, he reached over
and drew it towards him. Then Spenser Hale interfered.
'Excuse _me_,' he said, 'I'll do the telephoning. What is the call
number of Mr. Summertrees?'
'140 Hyde Park.'
Hale at once called up Central, and presently was answered from Park
Lane. We heard him say,--
'Is this the residence of Mr. Summertrees? Oh, is that you, Podgers? Is
Mr. Summertrees in? Very well. This is Hale. I am in Valmont's
flat--Imperial Flats--you know. Yes, where you went with me the other
day. Very well, go to Mr. Summertrees, and say to him that Mr
Macpherson wants the encyclopaedia for 1893. Do you get that? Yes,
encyclopaedia. Oh, he'll understand what it is. Mr. Macpherson. No,
don't mention my name at all. Just say Mr. Macpherson wants the
encyclopaedia for the year 1893, and that you are to bring it. Yes,
you may tell him that Mr. Macpherson is at Imperial Flats, but don't
mention my name at all. Exactly. As soon as he gives you the book, get
into a cab, and come here as quickly as possible with it. If
Summertrees doesn't want to let the book go, then tell him to come
with you. If he won't do that, place him under arrest, and bring both
him and the book here. All right. Be as quick as you can; we're
waiting.'
Macpherson made no protest against Hale's use of the telephone; he
merely sat back in his chair with a resigned expression on his face
which, if painted on canvas, might have been entitled 'The Falsely
Accused.' When Hale rang off, Macpherson said,--
'Of course you know your own business best, but if your man arrests
Summertrees, he will make you the laughing-stock of London. There is
such a thing as unjustifiable arrest, as well as getting money under
false pretences, and Mr. Summertrees is not the man to forgive an
insult. And then, if you will allow me to say so, the more I think
over your absent-minded theory, the more absolutely grotesque it
seems, and if the case ever gets into the newspapers, I am sure, Mr.
Hale, you'll experience an uncomfortable half-hour with your chiefs at
Scotland Yard.'
'I'll take the risk of that, thank you,' said Hale stubbornly.
'Am I to consider myself under arrest?' inquired the young man.
'No, sir.'
'Then, if you will pardon me, I shall withdraw. Mr. Summertrees will
show you everything you wish to see in his books, and can explain his
business much more capably than I, because he knows more about it;
therefore, gentlemen, I bid you good-night.'
'No you don't. Not just yet awhile,' exclaimed Hale, rising to his
feet simultaneously with the young man.
'Then I _am_ under arrest,' protested Macpherson.
'You're not going to leave this room until Podgers brings that book.'
'Oh, very well,' and he sat down again.
And now, as talking is dry work, I set out something to drink, a box
of cigars, and a box of cigarettes. Hale mixed his favourite brew, but
Macpherson, shunning the wine of his country, contented himself with a
glass of plain mineral water, and lit a cigarette. Then he awoke my
high regard by saying pleasantly as if nothing had happened,--
'While we are waiting, Monsieur Valmont, may I remind you that you owe
me five shillings?'
I laughed, took the coin from my pocket, and paid him, whereupon he
thanked me.
'Are you connected with Scotland Yard, Monsieur Valmont?' asked
Macpherson, with the air of a man trying to make conversation to
bridge over a tedious interval; but before I could reply, Hale blurted
out,--
'Not likely!'
'You have no official standing as a detective, then, Monsieur
Valmont?'
'None whatever,' I replied quickly, thus getting in my oar ahead of
Hale.
'This is a loss to our country,' pursued this admirable young man,
with evident sincerity.
I began to see I could make a good deal of so clever a fellow if he
came under my tuition.
'The blunders of our police,' he went on, 'are something deplorable.
If they would but take lessons in strategy, say, from France, their
unpleasant duties would be so much more acceptably performed, with
much less discomfort to their victims.'
'France,' snorted Hale in derision, 'why, they call a man guilty there
until he's proven innocent.'
'Yes, Mr. Hale, and the same seems to be the case in Imperial Flats.
You have quite made up your mind that Mr. Summertrees is guilty, and
will not be content until he proves his innocence. I venture to
predict that you will hear from him before long in a manner that may
astonish you.'
Hale grunted and looked at his watch. The minutes passed very slowly
as we sat there smoking, and at last even I began to get uneasy.
Macpherson, seeing our anxiety, said that when he came in the fog was
almost as thick as it had been the week before, and that there might
be some difficulty in getting a cab. Just as he was speaking the door
was unlocked from the outside, and Podgers entered, bearing a thick
volume in his hand. This he gave to his superior, who turned over its
pages in amazement, and then looked at the back, crying,--
'_Encyclopaedia of Sport_, 1893! What sort of a joke is this,
Mr. Macpherson?'
There was a pained look on Mr. Macpherson's face as he reached forward
and took the book. He said with a sigh,--
'If you had allowed me to telephone, Mr. Hale, I should have made it
perfectly plain to Summertrees what was wanted. I might have known
this mistake was liable to occur. There is an increasing demand for
out-of-date books of sport, and no doubt Mr. Summertrees thought this
was what I meant. There is nothing for it but to send your man back to
Park Lane and tell Mr. Summertrees that what we want is the locked
volume of accounts for 1893, which we call the encyclopaedia. Allow me
to write an order that will bring it. Oh, I'll show you what I have
written before your man takes it,' he said, as Hale stood ready to
look over his shoulder.
On my notepaper he dashed off a request such as he had outlined, and
handed it to Hale, who read it and gave it to Podgers.
'Take that to Summertrees, and get back as quickly as possible. Have
you a cab at the door?'
'Yes, sir.'
'Is it foggy outside?'
'Not so much, sir, as it was an hour ago. No difficulty about the
traffic now, sir.'
'Very well, get back as soon as you can.'
Podgers saluted, and left with the book under his arm. Again the door
was locked, and again we sat smoking in silence until the stillness
was broken by the tinkle of the telephone. Hale put the receiver to
his ear.
'Yes, this is the Imperial Flats. Yes. Valmont. Oh, yes; Macpherson is
here. What? Out of what? Can't hear you. Out of print. What, the
encyclopaedia's out of print? Who is that speaking? Dr. Willoughby;
thanks.'
Macpherson rose as if he would go to the telephone, but instead (and
he acted so quietly that I did not notice what he was doing until the
thing was done), he picked up the sheet which he called his visiting
list, and walking quite without haste, held it in the glowing coals of
the fireplace until it disappeared in a flash of flame up the chimney.
I sprang to my feet indignant, but too late to make even a motion
outwards saving the sheet. Macpherson regarded us both with that
self-deprecatory smile which had several times lighted up his face.
'How dared you burn that sheet?' I demanded.
'Because, Monsieur Valmont, it did not belong to you; because you do
not belong to Scotland Yard; because you stole it; because you had no
right to it; and because you have no official standing in this
country. If it had been in Mr. Hale's possession I should not have
dared, as you put it, to destroy the sheet, but as this sheet was
abstracted from my master's premises by you, an entirely unauthorised
person, whom he would have been justified in shooting dead if he had
found you housebreaking and you had resisted him on his discovery, I
took the liberty of destroying the document. I have always held that
these sheets should not have been kept, for, as has been the case, if
they fell under the scrutiny of so intelligent a person as Eugène
Valmont, improper inferences might have been drawn. Mr. Summertrees,
however, persisted in keeping them, but made this concession, that if
I ever telegraphed him or telephoned him the word "Encyclopaedia", he
would at once burn these records, and he, on his part, was to
telegraph or telephone to me "The _Encyclopaedia_ is out of print,"
whereupon I would know that he had succeeded.
'Now, gentlemen, open this door, which will save me the trouble of
forcing it. Either put me formally under arrest, or cease to restrict
my liberty. I am very much obliged to Mr. Hale for telephoning, and I
have made no protest to so gallant a host as Monsieur Valmont is,
because of the locked door. However, the farce is now terminated. The
proceedings I have sat through were entirely illegal, and if you will
pardon me, Mr. Hale, they have been a little too French to go down here
in old England, or to make a report in the newspapers that would be
quite satisfactory to your chiefs. I demand either my formal arrest,
or the unlocking of that door.'
In silence I pressed a button, and my man threw open the door.
Macpherson walked to the threshold, paused, and looked back at Spenser
Hale, who sat there silent as a sphinx.
'Good-evening, Mr. Hale.'
There being no reply, he turned to me with the same ingratiating
smile,--
'Good-evening, Monsieur Eugène Valmont,' he said, 'I shall give myself
the pleasure of calling next Wednesday at six for my five shillings.'