A spick and span little steam yacht was slowly entering the tiny harbour of Porthaven. The tide was ebbing fast and the pier master shouted a few directions, for the channel of available water was not very wide. She flew the French tricolour flag astern, and the pennant of a well-known French yacht club on her foremast. On the bridge, smoking a cigarette, stood a little man, every bit as spick and span as the yacht herself; a typical Frenchman, dressed in a spotless white duck suit, with very sharp, piercing brown eyes which scanned the quayside narrowly.
There was nothing remarkable in the entrance of a French yacht into the little harbour of Porthaven. It was the height of the yachting season, and a dozen other small private craft lay there at anchor, or were moored alongside the quay. The owner of one of them, standing on deck with a pair of glasses, remarked to a lady who stood by his side:
"That's Hirondelle coming in. She belongs to a chap named De Natoye—there he is, on the bridge. I met him at Cannes this spring."
"A Frenchman?"
"Yes—and a rich one too. A very jolly chap. I'll have the dinghy out and pay him a call when he comes to anchor. Welcome him to English waters."
For the next few days De Natoye was welcomed not only by this particular owner of a yacht, but also by everyone of note in Port-haven. He was an agreeable little man, bright and vivacious, and his presence added much to the society gathered at the seaside resort. Once or twice he pleaded excuses for not accepting invitations to lunch or dinner, and on these occasions it might have been noticed that he took an express to London, and was not arrayed in yachting garb.
But with Monsieur De Natoye himself and his elegant steam yacht this story does not deal directly, although he was the leading cause that led to a curious railway incident. It will be necessary, therefore, to leave Hirondelle at her moorings in Porthaven harbour, and to transfer the scene to London—hot and out of season at the end of August.
Night had set in when, out of one of the little side streets in that strange district called Soho, there came into Wardour Street an unobtrusive little man, who glanced once or twice over his shoulders as if to see whether anyone were following him or not. A look of satisfaction passed over his face as he made up his mind that, apparently, he was unobserved. Porthaven yachtsmen, looking at him closely, would have noticed that he was Monsieur De Natoye, and would have remembered that he had refused, with most polite excuses, to attend a dinner that night on board Lord Feverel's yacht Firefly.
Arrived in Piccadilly Circus he lit a cigarette, unbuttoned the light dust-coat he was wearing, disclosing an expanse of shirt-front beneath, and strolled leisurely in the direction of a famous café, where men of all nations congregate. It being out of the season, there were not many present.
Seated in a corner, a Benedictine on the table in front of him, a cigar in his mouth, was a tall, military-looking man, with a big moustache and keen grey eyes. Anyone who knew anything of the diplomatic world would have recognised him at once as Colonel Sibthorpe, attached to the Foreign Office, "a deuced good berth, and nothing to do, what?" as some of his military friends said.
In fact, no one seemed to know quite what the Colonel's exact mission was. He made pleasant little Continental tours, he lounged about town, was an agreeable companion, and knew what was going on in the world. That was all most men could say about him.
Monsieur de Natoye walked up to him. The Colonel nodded affably.
"Hullo!" he exclaimed, "you in town? What brings you to this dull metropolis?"
"Business—a leetle business, Colonel," answered the Frenchman, sitting down beside him.
The Colonel motioned to a waiter.
"A Benedictine?" he asked.
"Certainly. Thank you."
"Bring me another, too."
"Yessir."
When the drinks arrived the Colonel, leaning back in the chair, said nonchalantly in a low tone: "Well? Settled it?"
"Yes," answered De Natoye, sinking his voice to the level of the other.
"When?"
"Wednesday."
"What time?"
"He takes the 7.15 train from London."
"And reaches Porthaven?"
"At 10.42."
"You sail at once?"
"No. The tide will not serve before half-past one in the morning."
The Colonel puffed at his cigar thoughtfully.
"Anyone suspect?" he asked presently.
"We think not, but we are not sure."
"Humph."
"You will help us?"
"Only as far as I can—you know my position?"
The Frenchman nodded. Someone sat down at the next table, a foreigner apparently. The Colonel raised his voice.
"You are staying in town to-night?"
"Yes."
"Ah! Glad to have seen you. I must be off. Good-night!"
He finished his liqueur, shook hands with De Natoye, strolled outside on the pavement, and hailed a taxi.
"Kensington High Street."
"Whereabouts, sir?"
"Oh, the station will do."
Arrived there, he got out, dismissed the taxi, and walked some little distance in the Hammersmith direction till he came to a row of ugly-looking houses standing back from the Street. Taking a quick glance on either side first, he went up to the door of one of these houses and rang the bell. The servant came.
"Mr. Brett at home?"
"Yes, sir, but I think he's engaged."
The Colonel took a card from his pocket, a blank one, wrote a few words upon it, and handed it to her.
"Give him that and I think he'll see me."
In less than a minute the servant was showing him into a room at the back of the house. An alert-looking, clean-shaven man of middle height rose from the desk at which he was seated.
"I didn't expect you, sir," he said quietly.
"No," replied the Colonel as he took a seat, "but I've a bit of work on hand that I think requires your services."
Brett closed the door and locked it, his face betraying no surprise. He was accustomed to secret commissions from the Foreign Office; in fact he made his living chiefly by this means. Not that he stood in any official capacity. He knew very well the risks he ran, and that if he walked into trouble he could expect no open help from those whom he served. The secret agent of a Government often has important work to do, and does it well as a trusted servant, but he must never expect to be recognised officially.
The Colonel lit a cigar, took a notebook from his pocket, and consulted it carefully. Presently he said:
"You know a man named Koravitch—a Russian, don't you?"
Brett thought for a moment. Then he replied: "Yes. Goes by the name of Martin sometimes." The Colonel nodded. Brett unlocked a cabinet and took a small, indexed book from it.
"Here he is," he said presently, "Koravitch, Russian subject. A suspect in Russia. Gave information on Roumanian question. Known to the French Secret Service. Useful man."
The Colonel nodded.
"That's the chap," he said, "do you happen to know where he is now?"
Brett again consulted his notebook.
"Yes—in England—unless he's left the country during the last fortnight—which would have been difficult," he added grimly.
"It would have been difficult, as you say," replied the Colonel. "I see you're up-to-date, Brett."
"It's my business, sir. Do you want Koravitch? I can soon lay my hand on him."
"So can I. But we don't want him just now. Let me give you the facts of the case. Koravitch, as you said just now, is a useful man—both to us and the French Government. But the Russians don't want him on the Continent. They know very well he's here—they made it too hot for him in his own country—and the Russian police have been keeping him under observation. But as long as he remains in England they'll leave him alone. Well, as it happens, there's a very good reason why he should go to France just now."
"I see—and you want me to get him over there quietly?"
"No, I don't. That's the affair of the French Secret Service, not ours. And it's been arranged. You know Monsieur De Natoye?"
Brett's eyes sparkled.
"One of the cleverest little fellows they've got."
"Quite so. Well, he's got a yacht lying at Porthaven, ready to take Koravitch off. I owe him a good turn, and although, as I said, the affair is not ours, and we can't take any definite action, still I'm anxious he should get Koravitch away."
"What do you want me to do, sir?"
"The case stands thus. Directly the Russian police suspect the man's leaving England, they'll arrest him. They've got a plausible reason—so plausible that international complications would arise if any department went to the Home Office and stopped interference.
"You mean, sir, that our police would have to help the Russians if called upon?"
"Exactly. They're hardly likely to do that—I don't think they will—but our police must be kept out of it. Now, Koravitch takes the 7.15 train to Porthaven at the terminus of the London Eastern and Porthaven line on Wednesday night. He arrives there at 10.42, but De Natoye's yacht can't get out before one, because of the tide. What the Russian police will do, if they suspect anything, is this. They'll either have Koravitch arrested before he leaves London, or they'll go down to Porthaven and nab him on the boat. He's not out of the wood till the yacht starts. Then De Natoye will see to it."
"What do you want me to do, sir?"
"If you can, shadow the whole thing unostentatiously, and, if there is a danger of the arrest taking place, prevent it. You'll earn a big fee. But, remember, I can give you no support in any way."
"That's understood, sir. Anyhow I'll try my best."
The Colonel shrugged his shoulders.
"Right! You know your game then. Don't come to me about it—at all events, until Thursday, when it will have been played out one way or another. Good night!"
Turning over the papers on the bookstall at the London terminus of the London Eastern and Porthaven Railway stood Brett, apparently a nondescript individual with plenty of time on his hands. But he was by no means idle. The centre of observation was the gateway to number 7 platform close by, from which the 7.15 express to Porthaven started. It was just after seven now, and the train was drawn up in readiness. Brett scrutinised quietly every person who went through the gate. He also kept his eyes from time to time on the door leading from the booking office, and took searching glances round the big open space between the station buildings and the entrances to the various platforms.
At ten minutes past seven a man walked quickly across this space to where Brett was standing; it was one of his subordinates.
"All right," he said, "he's taking his ticket. I followed him all the way in a taxi."
"See anyone?"
[Words missing? - possibly "No-one."
"They're artful," replied Brett, "I've had to deal with them before. Go outside and watch everyone who comes to the station. If you see them, come at once. If we can, we must stop them somehow."
The man went back. In a couple of minutes an individual came across to platform number 7, a man with a large head and wearing a soft hat turned down over his forehead. Brett recognised him by his walk.
"Koravitch!" he said to himself. "I expect the poor beggar feels precious nervous."
He watched him take a seat in the train. A sudden thought occurred to him. He glanced at the clock. It was now 7.10.
"Allow me to speak to a friend who is leaving by this train?"
"Certainly, sir," said the polite official, letting him through the gate.
He went up to the carriage. The man within gave a start as Brett's head poked itself into the window.
"All right," said the latter, "I know. The coast is clear, but if they should come at the last moment drop out on the other side and let them board the train. If not, when you get down make your friend take his yacht out the instant the tide serves. That's all."
Without waiting for a reply he hurried back to his post of observation and watched the clock.
Twelve minutes past—thirteen—fourteen—surely it was all right now.
No! Suddenly he saw his fellow detective rushing across. He ran forward to meet him.
"Three of them!" said the man.
"Right. Charge!" exclaimed Brett, in a low voice.
Three men came dashing out of the booking office close on each other's heels. Without a word Brett and his assistant rushed forward with their heads down to meet them. As they did so Brett heard the bell ring at the platform entrance.
They tilted against the first man, fell in a heap, and the other two came tripping over them. There was a little chorus of strange oaths; one of the men picked himself up and made a dash for number 7 platform.
"Too late, sir," said the collector, indicating, with a jerk of his thumb, the outgoing train.
"I don't know whether you ought to apologise to us, or we to you," said Brett, blandly, "the meeting was so mutual!"
The leader of the three men looked at him with a scowl of suspicion. Brett raised his hat politely, and passed on, remarking:
"I don't mind apologising. I'm very sorry to have caused you any inconvenience."
"That's all right," said his subordinate, as they passed out of the station.
"Not a bit of it," replied Brett.
"What do you mean?"
"If they've as much common sense as I have—and I certainly give them credit for that—they'll find an easy way out of the difficulty."
"But it's the last train to Porthaven!"
"On this line," said Brett, drily. "Come in here and have a drink. This thing's got to be thought out."
Brett explained as they sat in the corner of a private bar.
"The case is like this," he said. "There's one way, and only one way of getting to Porthaven tonight before the yacht sails, and it's this. You know Melfield, don't you?"
"Yes. About a hundred miles down the line, isn't it?"
"That's right. A local train leaves Melfield at 11.5, arriving at Porthaven just after half-past twelve. If they catch that, Koravitch won't get out of the country."
"But how can they catch it?"
"By taking the 9.5 on the South Midland Railway to Melfield. It arrives there at 10.48. The South Midland and the London Eastern and Porthaven stations at Melfield are just over a mile apart. They'd do it easily if they took a motor."
"I see—but not if the train were late?"
"That train never is late. It nearly always runs to time."
"If it could be delayed on the journey—"
"Exactly," replied Brett. "That's just the problem I'm trying to work out. I want to delay that train and I want to do it without any risk of danger to anyone—that is, of course, if they travel by it—as I think they will. And there isn't much time."
He lit his pipe and smoked thoughtfully for a few minutes. Then a smile came into his face.
"I know something about railways," he said, "and the way they're worked. And I have an idea I can make that train late at Melfield."
"How?"
"With a good strong gimlet!"
"A gimlet?"
"I haven't time to explain. You go straight to the South Midland Terminus and keep a look-out. Don't let them see you. At ten minutes to nine you'll see me by the bookstall—I shall be dressed as an old man. Let me know if they are there. That's all. I've just got time to run home and change first."
Before he called a taxi to take him home, Brett entered a shop close by and purchased a large, strong gimlet, with a sharp screw point, carefully examining it to see that it was good steel.
About a quarter to nine an old man walked slowly into the terminus of the South Midland Railway. Clouds had come over the evening sky, and darkness had set in prematurely. He loitered about by the bookstall till his subordinate came up.
"You were right," said the latter, "they're all three here, and they've taken tickets for Melfield."
"Good! You needn't wait. If you like to come to my house in an hour's time I'll explain things to you."
The South Midland Terminus is constructed on a different principle from that of the London Eastern and Porthaven, in that passengers have free access to all the platforms. Brett made his way to number 4, from which he ascertained the Melfield train started. It was just being slowly backed in, the red tail light gleaming as it came down the line to the buffer stops at the "dead end." Brett knew that the chief difficulty of his task was to escape the notice of the officials. He entered a compartment at the rear end of the train, crossed the floor of the carriage, opened the further door, and, closing it behind him, dropped down on the line beyond, between the train and another that stood on the neighbouring metals.
Then he made his way cautiously to the back of the train and crawled under the last coach, coming out behind it—between it and the "dead end." It was fairly dark here, with the exception of the gleam from the red lamp.
It was this red lamp that Brett wanted—for less than a minute. Making up his mind for a bold attempt he reached for it, removed it from its socket behind the coach, put it on the ground, and, stooping down, removed the lamp itself from its outer case. Then, with a sharp prod from his gimlet, he bored a hole at the bottom of the oil receptacle, giving the tool a quick turn afterwards. The oil came dripping out.
In ten seconds the leaking lamp was replaced on its socket, and Brett was under the coach again. He managed to slip out unobserved, and to gain platform number 5 through the other train. Before he left the station he saw the three Russian police agents enter the Melfield express. Then he went home satisfied, saying to himself:
"Even if they order a special to Porthaven at Melfield they can't get there in time. It would take too long to get one out. I should like to be on that train and see the effect."
The effect was very simple. A red tail light is placed at the rear of a train for several reasons—to protect it should it be at a standstill, and, more especially, to notify to signalmen on duty that the whole of the train has passed, and that the line behind, therefore, is clear.
Slowly, but surely, the oil trickled out of that particular lamp, until none was left. The train had run some fifty or sixty miles of its journey when the light finally drooped and went out. The first man who noticed something was wrong was the signalman in charge of an obscure roadside cabin named "Cherrington Box." He gave a little start as the train whisked by, and then promptly obeyed his printed orders. That is to say, he went to his signalling apparatus, and sent forward to the next box the code signal of his line, seven beats, a pause, and a final beat. In the next signal-box the man on duty heard the eight rings in this particular order, and, to his ears, they carried the very plain message:
"Stop and examine train!"
Which he proceeded to do by keeping the home signal against her.
"What's up?" cried the driver, as he stopped beside the box.
"Cherrington telephones you've got no tail light," shouted the signalman.
Down jumped the guard and ran behind the train. The lamp was there right enough, but out. He tried to light it, and swore at the lampmen fifty miles behind him.
"Forgot to fill it!" he muttered.
In his van was a spare one. But it took several minutes before it was fixed behind the train. Three men were anxious, and one of them shouted out of the window to the front guard, with a foreign accent:
"Why do we stop?"
"All right, sir; we're just off."
"We shall be late at Melfield?"
"Yes, sir, I'm afraid we shall."
"A sovereign if we're in time."
"Hope we shall be, then," said the guard; "but it doesn't rest with me. Right away, George! Try your best, and it's shares."
For he guessed the driver had overheard. But, at Slade Junction box, a cross-country express, well up to time, got the road on to Melfield first, and the London train steamed in thirteen minutes late. For the second time that night three men failed to get to Porthaven, and perhaps they guessed it was not pure accident.
On Friday Brett saw Colonel Sibthorpe.
"Well," said the latter, "he got off all right. I suppose the coast was clear after all?"
"I rather fancy I made it clear for him," replied Brett, with a smile.
"How?"
He drew a gimlet from his pocket and showed it to the Colonel. "With this, sir."
And he proceeded to explain.